### Questions ###

1. How many new services we are creating in breaking the monolith?
    
2. How are we prioritizing them? Is it tied to the incident root causes?
    
3. What all services can be created in parallel vs. sequential? i.e. what is the gantt chart view of deploying them?
    
4. Is there a logical arch diagram of the target state of breaking the monolith by end of Q1 that we can use to have this discussion? I think it will be more efficient if we are looking at something together else it is very vague for me.
    
5. What is the tradeoff if we decide we will take some risk on tech arch and stop the breaking the monolith by end of Q3 and get to 50/50 capacity

### Transcript ###
Transcript from my own thinking out loud about CJ's questions:
 
Me: Okay. So this is just me. Thinking out loud in response to. CJ. S questions about. My exchange modernization update slide deck. So on his first question. How many new services are we creating in breaking the monolith? First of all. I want to make clear that. That's not really important. Obviously, I want. To explain this tactfully. The architecture will evolve. Over time and probably will never stop evolving. CJ is probably looking for. A way to define. A definition of done. That's why he's asking for how many services. But the reality is. We might not even be creating any new services. As part of this first phase of getting to autonomous teams or breaking the monolith. The initial goal is just to get. The teams to an autonomous state. To be able to deploy, build and deploy. Their domain. Independently of each other. We might not actually even create any new services as part of this first phase. We might just. Carve up exactly what we have. Already. His second question, how are we prioritizing the services? Is it tied to incident root causes? Again? I guess if there are clear opportunities. To. Tackle certain parts of the exchange system, certain services. That. Are. That have proven to be problematic. In other words, they have. Incident root causes tied to them or whatnot. Then yes, they will. Obviously be high on the priority list for. Breaking off the monolith so they can be. Deployed independently and iteratively. Improved on. In a kind of a standalone fashion. But otherwise, again simply getting to a place where each team can. Own, build, deploy their own. Domain. Just that is going to significantly. Improve our ability to respond to. And fix incident root causes. Okay, so the third question is. What services can be created in parallel versus sequential. Is there Gantt chart view of deploying them? So again. This initial target state. Is not necessarily. That different from what we have today in terms of a deployment footprint or infrastructure. Or. What services you can see on an architecture diagram. It might be very close to what we have today. The main goal is to get. Teams to operate independently. That probably means that there are. In order to break some of the coupling in today's monolith. We probably have to. Break apart or create some new services. That's true. This is, but this is what's going to come out of. This initial analysis that the teams are. Going to start doing over the next few weeks. We're asking the teams to do a couple of things in the immediate future. To basically arrive at a very well defined. List of what they own and what's part of their domain. And also. Start building out. A target architecture. Which will then obviously be easy to contrast with what they have today. So I guess on this question, what services can be created in parallel versus sequential. Again, the whole idea is to get to teams that operate autonomously or independently, meaning. There will be a lot of parallelism. Once we get to that state. Each team can now. Build and create new services independently of each other. But. There's no. Gantt chart at the service level at this point. And then the fourth question, is there logical architecture diagram of the target state of breaking the monolith? By the end of q1 that we can use to have this discussion? Again? No, we don't have that. It's, it needs to be defined bottom up. Each team needs to. Build that out. And it's honestly. Again, it's not, it's not very important as part of this initial. Phase of just getting to autonomous teams. And then lastly, what's the trade-off if we decide if we will take on some risk on. The technology architecture and stop breaking the monolith by the end of Q3. And get to a 50 50 capacity allocation by the end of Q3? So I guess the answer to that question is. Again, we need to get to autonomous teams. Otherwise we're going to be continued to be slowed down. By the monolith, the monolithic deployment footprint. The fact that all teams are tied up in the same deployment pipeline. The same two to three week. Testing and certification cycle, everything is just extremely. Slow. The way it is. Now. The good news is that. We. Will. Likely arrive at this. Place kind of incrementally. Some teams will. Have broken free, so to speak, and have become autonomous. Sooner than others. And as soon as they are, they, they will start operating and running. Independently and can deploy. Much faster already. I don't think that. Most teams will get there by the end of q3. Partially because. Of other competing work. Most notably. The disaster recovery work. But again, I don't know, we will have much more visibility into this. And I'm just going to say, I don't know, a few weeks. Or, you know, a few weeks into Q3. Maybe. To clarify. So again, the most important thing for me to clarify is probably. Okay, seems like most some things were not captured. Okay, I guess it's working. Yeah, again, so the most important thing here is probably. To clarify that. The state we need to get to is less about. The actual services and the architecture. And more about team. S. To. Break free from the monolithic. Way of working. To break free of. The shared deployment pipeline. And testing cycle and all of that. And then from that point. Each team. Will continue to. Make. Architectural improvements for a long time. But the key thing there is that. Now we can have much more normal. Trade-off discussions. Between those technical improvements and commercial roadmap items and so on. And the discussions can happen locally in each team. Some team can be. Some teams. Will. Be in a much better state. And can focus. A lot of the time and energy on commercial items and creating value for the business and so on. And some other teams. Might have a messier. Architecture situation, more coupling. Etc. And might need to spend some more time. On addressing that. But again, they can do that locally. Incrementally at their own pace. I guess the other thing that I want to explain is. Or remind him of is that. The teams are not. Fully. Built. Out yet. We still have. Something like, let me see, we still have. 25 rolls. Left to hire. And 20 of those are. In India. Still have. Let's see. Yeah, we still have three managers to hire. So in other words. We're still building. Out. The teams. And some of these lower level architecture decisions. Exactly which services. Are going to be in. The end state, so to speak. We just don't have that. The teams, it needs to be more of a bottom up approach. But again, it's not super important. Even if. We have the exact same architecture as today. But decoupled teams. We would be in a much, much, much better state. 