Meeting Title: Interview: Ravi Kumar Kotha for Manager, Software Engineering - Java, AWS, CI/CD
Date: Apr 3

Transcript:
 
Them: So I went to high school after baby's high school and I went to UC Davis for a little while.  
Me: I went to high school and I went to see notice for a little while.  
Them: Yeah, my niece goes there now. Okay.  
Me: Yeah, my niece goes there now. Yeah.  
Them: Cool. Cool. Yeah.  
Me: Hello. Hey. What do you guys are sharing? I don't know. Are your alumni or something? Or.  
Them: No, I live near Sacramento, which is near Davis City. That's where Lara went apparently for bachelors. I don't know masters, but yeah, just talking about that.  
Me: No, I live near Sacramento. Davis City. That's where. A lot of. People. Masters. Yeah. Yeah. Just talking about that. Okay. Did you say you went to Davis, Laura?  
Them: Yeah, I went to Davis and I went to UC Santa Cruz. So I graduated Santa Cruz.  
Me: Yeah, I went to Davis and I went to UC Santa Cruz. So I graduated Santa Cruz.  
Them: But Davis is a fun place. The whole Sacramento area is an interesting.  
Me: But famous is a. Is a fun place is an interesting. Yeah, both. Both. I and my wife went to UC Irvine. I went. For me, it was just an exchange student here. But. But she graduated from there.  
Them: Oh, cool. Nice. Yes. Yeah. UC is a great system. Yeah. A lot of connections to California. Yeah, nice.  
Me: All right. UC is a great system. Yeah. Connections to California. Yeah. Yeah. Cool. Yeah. So. Hi, Robbie. Nice to meet you.  
Them: Yeah, likewise, Martin.  
Me: Yeah.  
Them: Yeah.  
Me: Yeah. Thanks for taking some time to talk to us here. I think you've had. You talked to a few of our colleagues so far, and then I believe you have this at least one more interview later today. Is that right? No, no, that's for the schedule. It's the only one I have. Okay, so maybe you had it right. You don't. You talked to Christine already on somebody else. Is that right? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Yeah.  
Them: No, as for the schedule, this is the only one I have. Yeah, yeah. Yeah. I spoke to Christine and Paul just to one o'clock. Yeah.  
Me: Okay, great. Yeah. So let's do. We'll just do. I mean, you know how this works. We'll do a quick. Some quick introductions. And then we'll dive into some questions that I would love if they end up in. In more of a discussion. And then. And then we'll make sure that you have. We have some time for question. If you have any questions for us in the end as well. Okay. Sounds good. I'm already talking, so I'll. I'll get started. So some. Yeah. So my name is Martin, our executive director of engineering with responsibility.  
Them: Sure. Yeah, sounds great.  
Me: Basically, I own the what we call the exchange, which is really. The kind of core, core system, if you will, at ghx. It's the system that really the company was founded around and, you know, back in the day, actually. So how much do you know about the company and the. And what we do and so on. I assume you've learned some through this process.  
Them: Yeah, I did. I did. I see quite a lot of things that the platform is doing in terms of helping the clinician hospitals and clinics and, you know, inventory management and the invoicing system that you have and how you try to make the assets track the assets in keeping them visible for the hospitals and yeah, it's great. I mean, I have done similar product while I was at zebra technologies, which I can go in later. But yeah, in the asset tracking. Yeah, sounds good.  
Me: Yeah. I did. I did. I see quite a, quite a lot of things that the platform is doing in terms of helping the finish hospitals and clinics and, you know, management and invoicing system that you have and how you try to, you know, make the assets, you know, tracked assets in keeping them, you know, visible for the hospitals and the. Yeah, it's great. I mean, I had. We have done similar product while I was executing for technologies, which I can go in later. Okay. Yeah. And that's the tracking. Yeah. Okay. All right. So it's also given a decent idea. So, yeah, so. So I. The team that reports to me owns that system kind of soup to nuts. Right. Both this. Both in terms of the core document processing and so on, but also a bunch of systems around it. That has to do with analytics and insights and, you know, internal, let's call it just like configuration type workflows and. And whatnot. So I'm pretty new at the company. I've only been here for four months or so.  
Them: Okay.  
Me: And let's see what else. I think. Yeah. So my. My team. So we're. It's 10. What is it? 10 to 12 teams or so. All in all, both located in the US and India about, I don't know, 40, 60 split or so. And then, yeah, I think that I'll keep. I'll cap with that. And then Laura is my product peer. So we work very closely together, and I'll hand it off to her for. For kind of an intro. Yeah. Yeah. Thanks.  
Them: Thanks, Yeah. So nice to meet you. And I've been at ghx for about two and a half years. So I'm still seen as a newcomer. So we work side by side with people who have been at ghx for 10, 15, 20, 25 years. Like there's a lot of long timers at our company. And as Martin said, the ghx exchange is our flagship product.  
Me: Yeah. So nice to meet you. And I've been at ghx for about two and a half years, so I'm still seen as a newcomer. So we work side by side with people who have been at ghx for 10, 15, 20, 25 years. Like, there's a lot of long timers at our company. And as Martin said, the ghx exchanges are flagship product. It's a supply chain transaction platform. It sits between hospitals and suppliers.  
Them: It's a supply chain transaction platform. It sits between hospitals and suppliers. And it manages the full life cycle of the healthcare supply chain. So, you know, purchase orders, invoices, ship notices, routing business rules, transformation, exception management. Everything we need to make the transactions work reliably across thousands of trading partner relationships.  
Me: And it manages the full life cycle of the health care supply chain. So, you know, purchase orders, invoices, shift notices, routing business rules, transformation, exception management. Everything we need to make the transactions work or reliably across thousands of training partner relationships.  
Them: So it's high availability, high volume. And it's basically the backbone of how our customers run their supply chains.  
Me: So it's high availability, high volume, and it's basically the backbone of how our customers run their supply chains. So there's plenty online if you want to dig deeper, but.  
Them: So there's plenty online if you want to dig deeper. But today I'll be focusing primarily on how we would partner together.  
Me: Today I'll be focusing primarily on how we would partner together to deliver our consumer outcomes.  
Them: To deliver our customer outcomes and how we would work together to balance our commercial growth and modernization work in order to keep our platform healthy.  
Me: And how would work together to balance our commercial growth and modernization work in order to keep our platform healthy.  
Them: Okay. Excellent. Nice to meet you.  
Me: Okay. Excellent. Yeah.  
Them: That's great.  
Me: Great.  
Them: Yeah, thank you, Laura and Martin for the introduction. It's very helpful and, you know, great to know about you.  
Me: Yeah. Thank you, laura and Martin for the introduction. It's very helpful and, you know, great to know about you. You know, myself, I'm pravipata. I'm seasonal engineering leader who tried with the intersection of people projects and technology. I take pride in not only delivering the project goals, but also creating an environment where the teams have an opportunity to excel in their careers and also contribute meaningful way to the company host. I try to bring Clarity during ambiguity. I try to set clear goals for the team in so that there is no guessing game for them. I try to create an environment where everybody feels safe and their voice is, you know, conveyed and heard. And, you know, during my time at zebra Technologies for about five plus years, leading all the platform and solutions for nfm player tracking, I have delivered three products from zero to one and, you know, yielding the company about 12 million plus in the annual direct revenue. And, you know, in 2023, I had to take a break from professional journey to focus on my personal goals and spend meaningful time with my family and then I got back into the professional journey through this opportunity at anime. The last two years have been more on the technical side, helping the team within their efforts to migrate their, you know, legacy systems, which is also a monolith into microservices architecture.  
Them: You know, myself, I'm Ravi Kota. I'm seasonal engineering leader who thrive at the intersection of people projects and technology. I take pride in not only delivering the project goals, but also creating an environment where the teams have an opportunity to excel in their careers and also contribute meaningful way to the company goals. I try to bring clarity during ambiguity. I try to set clear goals for the team so that there is no guessing game for them. I try to curate in environment where everybody feels safe and their voice is conveyed and heard. And, you know, during my time at zebra technologies for about five plus years leading all the platform and solutions for NFL player tracking, I have delivered three products from zero to one and, you know, yielding the company about 12 million plus in annually recurring revenue and in 2023, I had to take a break from professional journey to focus on my personal goals and spend meaningful time with my family. And then I got back into the professional journey through this opportunity at Fannie Mae. The last two years have been more on the technical side, helping the team within their efforts to migrate their, you know, legacy systems, which is also a monolith into microservices architecture. And I have been helping with the design architecture, code reviews and, you know, improving the processes, be it CSAD pipelines being more efficient there and the deployment efficiencies and also mentoring the junior members in the team to be more productive. Working with the business stakeholders in understanding the requirements and translating them to a, you know, meaningful technical goals to achieve.  
Me: And I have been helping with the design, architecture, code reviews and, you know, improving the processes, be it CS80 pipelines being more efficient there and deployment efficiencies and also maintaining the junior members in the team to be more productive, working with the business stakeholders in understanding the requirements and translating them to a, you know, meaningful technical goals to achieve.  
Them: Before fanny, I was with zebra technologies and Motorola solutions, we got acquired by zebra technologies. I was with the company for about 17 years, started my career as a, you know, individual contributor became the go-to person in the team and becoming a team lead. And then there was an opportunity in 2018 due to a restructuring that happened in the team. I assume the manager responsibilities took the team size from four to 12 during my five years of leadership time. You know, had a lot of learnings and a lot of, you know, opportunities for me to become a manager and become a good engineer.  
Me: Before I was with the Mr. Technology at Motorola Solutions, we got acquired by zebra Technologies. I was with the company for about 17 years, started my career as a, you know, individual contributor became the go-to person in the team and becoming a team lead. And then there was an opportunity in 2018 due to a restructure that happened in the team. I assume the manager responsibilities took the team size from four to 12 during my five years of leadership time, you know, had a lot of learnings and a lot of, you know, opportunities for me to become a manager and become a good engineer. Though I was a manager initially, I could not avoid my coding responsibility. So I continued my hands on, which I always wanted to and, you know, you know, as a leader, I try to, you know, sector lead by example and your ownership. I try to take ownership and I expect the same thing from my team as well, being accountable and looking for opportunities for efficiencies and the process and systems.  
Them: Though I was a manager initially, I could not avoid my coding responsibilities. So I continued my hands on which I always wanted to and, you know, you know, as a leader, I try to sit made by example and, you know, ownership. I try to take ownership and I expect the same thing from my team as well. Being accountable and looking for opportunities for efficiencies and then the processes and the systems.  
Me: Nice. Great. Thank you for that intro. That's very helpful. I almost feel like I want to extend this conversation because we have lots to talk about. So let me. So, Laura, are you okay with me? Just kind of tag team a bit. Yep.  
Them: Yeah, absolutely.  
Me: Yeah.  
Them: I'll poke in where necessary, but please take the lead here.  
Me: I'll poke in where necessary, but please take the lead here. Yeah. Okay. So. Okay, so let me ask you this. So at, you're at zebra for a long time, went from an IC to management. Sounds very familiar, this career path. What? Tell me about that transition. Was that something you were aiming for and, like, tell. Yeah. Tell me about that.  
Them: Yeah, I mean starting my career at motor solutions.  
Me: Yeah. I mean, starting my career at, you know, motor Solutions, I'm going to solve this around 100 by people, senior managers and directors who kept their hands on. In fact, one of our director, he was a very key person in deriving our next, you know, architecture for the next big UI enhancement, big UI enhancement we were doing at the time. And that was an inspiration for me and how he balances the coding responsibilities along with the leadership skills. That was one key motivator for me, and I was looking for opportunities like that. And that's where I became a go-to person in the team and team, team lead by where I was not only generating my tasks, but also looking for opportunities for others to, you know, improve on and reading the design decisions or architecture and also owning the team, team responsibilities and opportunities to present the team at a, you know, across the company or outside the team. You know, those were the things I was, I was trying to achieve and did. I mean, yes, I mean, I was looking at domain manager, how he is able to deal with multiple conflicting realities and managing multiple projects. And I was hoping that someday I will have an opportunity. And, you know, this opportunity came in a, in a, in a slightly bad way where I lost my manager and then this opportunity showed up. I was like, you know, this is something I was always wonderful. And I took a prom. It was, it was a quite a challenging environment where we have clear SLES set with nfl product wise, but also, you know, we lost the team. Most of the team was network. We were left with four Engineers apart from me. And it was a bit of a hard film to chew, like where I need to where I could not avoid my quoting, but also I needed to prove myself as a leader outside, outside the team.  
Them: I want to talk surrounded by people, the senior managers and directors who kept their hands on. In fact, one of our director, he was a very key person in deriving our next architecture for the next big UI enhancement, the UI enhancement we were doing at the time. I mean, that was an inspiration for me and how he balances coding responsibilities along with the leadership skills. That was one key motivator for me. And I was looking for opportunities like that. And that's where I become a go-to person in the team and team lead where I was not only delivering my tasks, but also looking for opportunities for others to, you know, improve on and leading the design decisions or architecture and also owning the team responsibilities and opportunities to present the team at a, you know, across the company or outside the team. You know, those were the things I was, I was trying to achieve. And I mean, yes, I mean, I was always looking up to my manager, how he is able to deal with multiple conflicting priorities and managing multiple projects. And I was hoping that someday I will have an opportunity. And you know, this opportunity came in a slightly bad way where I lost my manager. And when this opportunity showed up, I was like, you know, this is something I was always wanting for. And I took upon it was a quite a challenging environment where we have clear SLES set with NFL product wise, but also, you know, we lost the team. Most of the team was let go. We were left with four engineers apart from me. And it was a bit of a hard fill to chew like where I need to where I could not avoid my coding responsibilities, but also I needed to prove myself as a leader outside the team. And as you know, when I was, I need also the other challenge was I needed to connect with my skip level manager, who I hardly had conversations before. So those were the challenges outside the team and projecting myself as a leader who can guide and work with the stakeholders. At the same time, when I work within the team environment, you know, working with them on the immediate deliverables, you know, coding and unblocking them and also making sure that they aren't waiting on me. So, I mean, those were definitely a lot of challenges. And as the team size grew and I was kind of shifting the percentage of the coding versus the leadership responsibilities shifted slightly and towards the end of my time at zipper technology side was mostly focusing on the leadership a bit less on the hands-on so that I can better focus on the team and make sure that the team is productive.  
Me: And, you know, when I was, I mean also the other challenge was I needed to connect with my skip level manager who I hardly had conversations before. So those were the challenges outside the team and the projecting myself as a leader who can guide and work with stakeholders at the same time. When I work within the team environment, you know, working with them on the image and deliverables, you know, coding and making unblocking them and also making sure that they are implementing on me. So, I mean, those were definitely a lot of challenges. And as the team size grew, and I was kind of shifting the percentage of the coding versus the leadership responsibilities shifted slightly and towards the end my time at super technologies, I was mostly focusing on the leadership, a bit less on the hands-on so that I can better focus on the team and make sure that the team is productive. Right. Is that, is that. What you meant, you said in the end there towards your. End of your time at zebra, you were doing more management and Leadership than, than technical things. What, what's your, do you like, do you like that mix? Do you like to mainly focus on leadership and management or what's your ideal situation in terms of Hands-On, you know, technical things versus management.  
Them: Yeah.  
Me: Yeah. I mean, good question, Martin. So, I mean, towards the end, yes, my responsibility shifted a little bit. But again, you know, in the last two years, my time in anime is more on the technical side where I was, where I'm actually coding and also helping with the design and the architecture and everything. So I'm totally fine with, you know, a mix of hands-on versus with leadership responsib. Actually, I always like to balance. Yeah. Okay.  
Them: I mean, good question, Martin. So in towards the end, yes, my responsibility shifted a little bit. But again, you know, in the last two years, my time in fan is more on the technical side where I was, where I'm actually coding and also helping with the design and the architecture and everything. So I'm totally fine with a mix of hands-on versus with leadership responsibilities. Actually, I always like to balance.  
Me: Nice. Laura, any follow-ups here? Yeah. Let me, let me dive in there. So it sounds like you've had some experience building trust with your team.  
Them: Yeah, let me dive in there. So it sounds like you've had some experience building trust with your team, with your leadership. Tell me a little bit about how you did that. And if you want, since I'm biased from product, tell me a bit about how you built trust and developed a relationship with your product counterpart.  
Me: With your leadership. Tell me a little bit about how you did that. And if you want, since I'm biased and I'm from product, tell me a bit about how you built trust and developed a relationship with your, your product counter. Part.  
Them: Yeah, I mean, I mean, initially, it was a big task for me initially. It was a challenge in connecting, you know, be it my communication that I needed to improve on and be it my way of approaching them, you know, in order to make sure I'm hitting the right areas. And one thing is, you know, every time I work with the product team initially, I was hesitant to say no for certain things. I was always overshooting and under delivering initially. And that was something caught me in the fire sometimes, which I course corrected later on and, you know, trying to know how to negotiate and how to better position the team towards success. That was something I learned. And the other thing was that, you know, when I followed agile methodology for a long time. And during ambiguous situations, which is the nature of the project for the NFL, you know, and the NFL teams itself, the dynamic nature of the requirements that come in and having a short time in addressing them, I needed to make sure that I focus on the right areas. So when I work with the product team, I make sure that I pick on the task that most impact with the customer, you know, prioritization is very, very important working with them, you know, picking the right ones which have more impact. And also, you know, making sure that their voice is heard, not, not trying to push back too much, but also work with empathy towards them because they are the ones facing the customers and feeling all the heat. So, you know, I'm trying to understand from the point of view, but also explain the technicalities involved in completing a particular task, making them aware of the decisions that we are making as a collectively, as a one fee, rather than, you know, anybody pushing on anyone or enforcing. So I try to work in a collaborative way and also, you know, the incremental approach towards productization with also something I kind of approached.  
Me: Yeah. I mean, I mean, initially, you know, it was a big task for me initially. It was challenge in connecting, you know, be it my communication that I needed to improve on and to be my way of approaching them, you know, and I needed to make sure meeting the right areas. And one thing is, you know, every time I work with the product team initially, I was hesitant to say no for certain things. I was always overshooting and under delivering initially. And that was something caught me in, in the fire sometimes, which I posted later on and, you know, trying to know how to negotiate and how to better position the team towards success, that whatever something I learned. And the other thing was that, you know, when I, we followed agile methodology at a long time. And during ambiguous situations, which is the nature of the project for the benefit, you know, and the different teams itself, the dynamic nature of the requirements that come in and having a short time in addressing them, I needed to make sure that I focus on the right areas. So when I work with the product team, I make sure that I pick on the task that have most impact with the customer. You know, prioritization is very, very important working with them, you know, picking the right ones which have more impact. And also, you know, making sure that their voice is heard, not, not trying to push back too much, but also work with empathy towards them because they are the ones facing the customers and feeling all the heat. So, you know, trying to understand from the point of view, but also explain the technicalities involved in completing a particular task, making them aware of the decisions that we are making as a collectively, as a one team rather than some, you know, anybody pushing on anybody, anyone are enforcing. So I try to work in a collaborative way and also, you know, the incremental approach towards product relation with also something I, I kind of approached.  
Them: Let me just ask one follow up then. Um, can you describe how you and your product counter part divided up ownership? Like what was yours? What was theirs? And what did you own jointly?  
Me: Let me just ask one follow-up then. Can you describe how you and your product counter part divided up ownership? Like, what was yours? What was theirs? And what did you own jointly?  
Them: So the way I worked, you know, for example, I want to become this particular product. We wanted zebra technologies. It's called player health and safety towards reducing the player's injuries. So it was a new product and an issue area where there was nothing like that existed before. And even NFL was also not clear about the requirements. We did a proof of concept and NFL decided to build on it. And initially there was a lot of ambiguity on this in achieving, in going forward. So, you know, we needed to work as a team in materializing the requirements where I needed to work with closely with the product team. So the product team is the one who are actually interfacing with the NFL teams in understanding their requirements and also, you know, and then coming back to me in sharing the requirements and trying to understand what can we commit to and what can be prioritized and what can be put in the for later releases. So that kind of prioritization. So the product team gets to pick what needs to go in the immediate release based on the customer request. And, you know, I try to balance it out based on the technical implementation after working with the team going back to them and saying the top things that we should pick. Sometimes there is a high impact task which has low, you know, very minimal work that is involved. So we try to pick those buck items first and also the items that are like most tend to change, you know, where there is very less clarity and we try to put them in the backlog and try to refine them as a team in the grooming sessions. We try to work on them. But anything, you know, overall, I try to give the control to the product team when it comes to deciding, you know, customer priorities. And also I expect the, you know, technical side of implementation details. I try to own them and, you know, try to work as a team.  
Me: So the way I want, you know, for example, I want to become this particular product, the pointed super technologies, it's called player health and safety towards reducing the player's injuries. So it was a new product and an issue area where there was nothing like the existence before. And even nfm was also not clear about the requirements. We did a proof of concept and decided to build on it. And initially there was a lot of ambiguity on this in, in achieving in render going forward. So, you know, I, we needed to work as a team in, in materializing the requirements where I needed to work with closely with the product team. So the product theme is the one who have actually interfacing with the nfl teams in understanding their requirements and also, you know, and then coming back to me in sharing the requirements and trying to understand what can be committed to and what can be prioritized and what can be put in the later releases. So that kind of dehydration. So the, the product team gets to pick what needs to go in the immediate release based on the customer request. And, you know, I try to balance it out based on the technical implementation after working with the team going back to them and saying the top things that you should pick. Sometimes there is a high impact task which has low, you know, very minimal work that is involved. So we try to pick those bug items first and also the items that are. Like, most tend to change, you know, where there is very less clarity and we try to put them in the backlog and try to define them as a, as a team in the grooming sessions. We try to work on them, you know, but anything, you know, overall, I try to give the control to the product team when it comes to deciding, you know, customer priorities. And also, I expect the, you know, technical side of implementation details. I try to own them and, you know, try to work as a team.  
Them: Okay, great. Thank you. Merton, I'll just take one more question, if you don't mind.  
Me: Okay, great. Thank you. Merton, I'll just take one more question, if you don't mind. Yeah.  
Them: Actually two, sorry. Were you working with product managers or product owners just real quick? Which ones?  
Me: Actually, two. Sorry. Were you working with product managers or product owners just real quick? Which ones? So product management.  
Them: Product manager actually. Okay. Okay. So and were they present in your standups and your sprint planning and grooming sessions?  
Me: Okay. Okay. So, and we're they present in your standups and your sprint planning and grooming sessions.  
Them: Okay.  
Me: Okay, you're scraping. Okay. And also we have a customer support team who there is a reference data from the customer support team who is also part of the, their fund operations team, actually customer operations team and board also part of the spring domain and daily standards and. Okay, so I want to just ask a question around.  
Them: Okay. And also we have a customer support team who there is a representative from the customer support team who is also part of the, they are from the operations team actually, customer operations team and who are also part of the string groomings and daily standards and everything. Interesting. Okay. So I want to just ask a question around. Planning and estimation. So, you know, from whatever job you want to reference.  
Me: Planning and estimation. So, you know, from whatever job you want to reference.  
Them: How did you contribute to the roadmap planning process? And in particular, what's your take on estimation? Do you do it at a t-shirt size? Do you do story points? No estimates. Like where do you land?  
Me: How old did you contribute to the roadmap planning process and in particular, what's your take on estimation? Do you do it a t-shirt a size? Do you do story points? No estimates. Like, where do you land?  
Them: Yeah. So for example in my current project at Fannie, we have a sprint quarterly planning sessions actually where we capture the things that we want to accomplish at a high level along with the dependencies across teams within Fannie Mae. So we try to collectively, we work for like two days every quarter and we identify what are we trying to achieve in the next three months along with commitments from interdependency within the teams. We also try to get a buy in from the other teams as well. And once we have the high level list of items which are epics that we want to achieve and then we try to put them for the stories into stories and capture again in the same two days, we try to capture all the stories towards achieving that epic. And you know those stories again we work as a team within the team to come up with story points. We try to have the storage defined in a very clear and scoped properly and you know having proper acceptance criteria so that there is no guessing game for the individual when he when they use a trick setup when a developer picks it up. So, you know, making them as crisp as possible. We use story points actually and in our story points we usually don't usually break them enough so that we don't have any eight pointers or anything like that. The max we have are five pointers. That means which can take the whole sprint in some cases. And you know we try to point based on the complexity and the criticality rather than the time it takes to accomplish the task. And we have a clear acceptance criteria defined for each story. You know, and then the meet every day and we have a stand up every day with the developers and all the stakeholders meet and you know explain what they are doing if they are blocked or anything. We try to have that resolved. And you know we have sprint showcases at the end of each sprint. The showcase the features done by each individual developer and get the acceptance by the product owner who looks at the output of the particular story and decides whether to accept or reject for further work. And you know we go there.  
Me: Yeah. So, for example, in my current project at anime, we have a sprint, quarterly planning sessions, actually, where we, they, we capture the things that we want to accomplish at a high level, along with the dependencies across teams within anime. So we try to collect in the work for like two days every quarter and we identify the model we try to achieve in the next three months along with commitments from interdependency in the teams. We also try to get a buy-in from the other teams as well. And once we have the high level list of items which are epics that we want to achieve, and then we try to put them through the stories into stories and capture again in the same two days, we try to capture all the stories. To our sectioning the topic. And, you know, those stories, again, we podcast a team within the team to come up with story points. We try to, we try to have the stories defined in very clear and scoped properly and, you know, having proper acceptance criteria so that there is no guessing game for the individual where people use and fix it up in a developer pixie. So, you know, making them as crisp as possible, we use story points actually and, you know, story points. We usually don't, we usually break them enough so that we don't have any eight pointers or anything like that. The match we have for five pointers. That means which can take the whole sprint in some cases. And, you know, we try to straightforward based on the complexity and the criticality rather than the time it takes to accomplish the task. And we have a clear acceptance criteria defined for each story, you know, and then we meet every day and we have a stand up every day with developers and all the stakeholders meet and, you know, explain what they are doing if they are blocked or anything. We try to have that resolved. And, you know, we have a sprint showcases at the end of each sprint. We showcase the features done by each individual developer and get the acceptance by the product owner who looks at the output of the particular story and decides whether to accept or reject further work and, you know, we go there.  
Them: Okay. And just one clarification. So your quarterly planning what increments were you using for estimation at your quarterly planning?  
Me: Okay. And just one clarification. So your quarterly planning, what increments were you using for estimation at your quarterly planning?  
Them: Quarterly planning we usually have you know business goals translated into epics for the for the particular for our product.  
Me: Quarterly planning, we usually have, you know, business goals translated into epics for the, for the particular buffer product.  
Them: And your estimation was oh yeah we have based on historical trend we have a estimation on how many points we can take and we try to commit to that many points in general.  
Me: And your estimation was, oh yeah, we have based on historical trend, we have a estimation on how many points we can take and we try to commit to that many points in general. Okay, so you were doing quarterly estimates at an epic level story points, not t-shirt sizing, but story points. Is that a story points? Yes. Perfect. I think, did you, I think you said, Ravi, that you spend time actually breaking down the epics into stories during those two days too. Is that correct?  
Them: Okay. So you were doing quarterly estimates. At a epic level and story points not t shirt sizing but story points. Is that correct? 20 points yes that is correct.  
Me: Yes.  
Them: Yes, correct. Yep. So.  
Me: So yeah, so yeah, that's what I heard at least. And then your story point the stories. Is that correct? Yeah, so based on the previous quarter deliveries and everything, we have an estimation of how many points that we could achieve. And then for the current quarter, we come up with all the stories and we put some estimation, rough estimation of what is it it's going to take. And then we have a grooming session followed by that. We actually plan and to, I mean that happens multiple times before the start of every sprint. We take those stories and do the grooming session and those stories. And of course, I mean, we are not going to, during those two planning sessions, we are not going to point all the stories for the whole quarter just for the immediate sprint to that and then move on.  
Them: Yeah, so based on the previous quarter deliveries and everything we have an estimation of how many points that we could achieve. And then for the current quarter we come up with all the stories and we put some estimation, rough estimation of what is it it's going to take. And then we have a grooming session followed by that where we actually plan and to, I mean that happens multiple times before the start of every sprint. We take those stories and do the grooming session and point those stories. And of course, I mean we are not going to during those two planning day sessions we are not going to point all the stories for the whole quarter just for the immediate for the immediate sprint. We do that and then move on.  
Me: Gotcha. Okay.  
Them: Okay. Okay.  
Me: Okay. So how, but so how do you, I think maybe what laura is asking then, how do you estimate the size of the epics? How do you estimate the size? So how do you basically estimate the whole quarter in that case?  
Them: Oh, I see. Okay. I mean for the epics itself we have the t-shirt sizing. Laura sorry. I mean the story individual stories we have the story points but for the epics itself we have the large medium and small sizing there.  
Me: Okay, for the epics itself, we have the tissue sizings. The story individual stories we have studied for the ethics itself. We have the large medium and small size engine there.  
Them: Okay.  
Me: Okay. Right.  
Them: Thanks. Martin.  
Me: All right. So I'm really interested in. Talk about fannie. And you mentioned one of the, I don't know if it's been the main task or you mentioned breaking part of monolith there. Can you just talk to us a bit more about. What you mean by that and what the situation was and how you approach this.  
Them: Granolan yeah definitely. So when I joined the team so they were in they were about to you know start on this initiative to break the monolith into microservices architecture. So they have a legacy system which has been working but again they had various problems with it. So you know the deployment times were becoming more and more even for a small change.  
Me: Yeah, definitely. So when I joined the team, so they were in, they were about to start on this initiative to break the monolith into microservices architecture. So they have a legacy system which has been working. But again, there had been this problems with it. So we don't have deployment times who are becoming more and more even for a small change and the turn of dependency across the teams that they had to go through and also the, you know, a lot of cohesiveness between the components, the so that they cannot be scanned individually because it's a monolith and all sorts of problems with the team velocity and deployment frequency and the time to resolve the issues. So these were the issues kind of driving them towards breaking this into microservice architecture. And the way we did it was that, you know, we picked the monolith into individual services based on the domain area that they are working on. And rather than separating them by technical layers. So, you know, domain driven decision is what design is what we use. So we brought it to individual identify the areas that we can separate potentially into. And we picked one particular functional area which can be easily moved out and prove our concept like a proof of concept we picked one service and kind of worked on separately and delivered. And we kind of validated our approach.  
Them: And you know a lot of dependency across the teams. That they had to go through and also the you know a lot of cohesiveness between the components so that they cannot be scaled individually because it's a monolith and all sorts of problems with team velocity and deployment frequency and the time to resolve the issues. So these were the issues kind of driving them towards breaking this into microservices architecture. And the way we did it was that you know we picked we try to break the monolith into individual services based on the domain area that they are working on. And rather than separating them by technical layers. So you know domain driven decision is what design is what we use. So we broke the monolith to individual identified the areas that we can separate potentially into. And we picked one particular functional area which can be easily moved out and prove our concept like a proof of concept we picked one surveys and kind of worked on separately and delivered. And we kind of validated our approach. And once that is done then we pick the most you know one of the critical area within the application but which can be easily separated out and then have it as a microservice deployed. And during this time we needed to make sure that the existing business functionality doesn't impact. And for which we needed to make sure that we as soon as we deploy the microservice we kind of went with a slow transition like shifting the traffic slowly consuming the new service versus shifting it at once. And once we feel confident we started having more and more customers use this new service and you know we kind of transition into the new service eventually.  
Me: And once that is done, then we pick the most, you know, one of the critical area within the application, but which can be easily separated out and then have it as a microservice deployed. And during this time, we needed to make sure that the existing business functionality doesn't impact and for which we needed to make sure that we, as soon as we deploy to microservice, we kind of went with a slow transition. Like restricting the traffic slowly, consuming the new server base versus shifting at once. And once we feel confident, we started having more and more customers use this new surveys and, you know, the kind of transition into the new service eventually.  
Them: So some of the challenges I faced during this transition was that as we started moving into the functional areas into the new surveys, you know there is some friction for example there is still some areas which needed to interface with the monolith application as each single service is coming out but still they had to maintain the connection with the monolith and how do we how do we achieve that. Right. So for that instead of polluting the new microservice with all the request response format of the existing monolith, we kind of came up with an abstract layer between the new microservices and the monolith itself. And it stayed there until the respective corresponding components are moved out. So we had to we did take that approach so that we don't kind of pollute the new microservice with all the baggage that we have from the monolith architecture.  
Me: So some of the challenges I faced during this transition was that as we started moving into the functional areas, into the new service, you know, there is some friction, for example, there is still some areas which needed to interface with monolith application as each and one single service is coming out, but still they have to maintain the connection with the bone of it. And how do we achieve that? Right. So for that, instead of polluting the new microservice without request response format of the existing monoid, we kind of came up with an abstract layer between the new microservices and monolith itself. And it stayed there until respective corresponding components are moved out. So we had to, we did take that approach so that we don't kind of pollute the new microservice without the baggage that we have from the monolith architecture. And also some other issues that we had fixed with the downstream consumers not being really at all, which I can go into the detail. But yeah, there were like quite a few learnings and improving on the CI/CP pipeline processes, architecting on AWS itself like scale being able to scale, setting the right scaling strategies depending on what the microservices is doing, you know, using the right auto scaling configurations. And those were the decisions that we had to make. Okay. How, so this monolith that you were breaking apart, how many teams.  
Them: And also some other issues that we had faced with the downstream consumers not being ready and all which I can go into the detail. But yeah, there were like quite a few learnings and improving on the CI/CD pipelining processes architecting on the AWS itself like being able to scale setting the right scaling strategies depending on what the microservices is doing using the right auto scaling configurations and those were the decisions that we had to make.  
Me: Was it just your team that owned this or was it collectively owned by multiple teams? I mean, there are like different areas between anime. Like there is ingestion side of the things. And then there is a score inside of the things. And then there is ml side of the things, machine learning side of the thing. So each individual team were actually in this journey of transitioning to microservices. So the team we are in is on range and side of the system.  
Them: Different areas between anime like there is ingestion side of the things and then there is their scoring side of the things. And then there is ML side of the things machine learning side of the thing. So each individual team were actually in this journey. Of transitioning to microservices. So the team we are in is on the ingestion side of the system. And we consume every appraisal that's submitted to anime needs to go through our system and then we publish certain information to the downstream consumers and you know and then we hear back on the some of the risk scores and whatever.  
Me: And we consume every appraisal that's submitted to a family needs to go through our system. And then we publish certain information to the downstream consumers and we hear back on the some of the risk scores and whatever. Okay. And. So I assume, so the team that you had in place obviously was used to working in this monolithic. Code base and monolithic approach, which in some ways is easier, right, than working in a distributed architecture. So what were some changes. That you had to put in place both technically and maybe process wise? And did you and did you meet any resistance to this approach or how did that go over?  
Them: Yeah.  
Me: Yeah.  
Them: Yeah I mean definitely there was some resistance and some open expression sometimes within the team about this effort that we are lifting. But again this is a push coming from the leadership. So you know some some people continued on and you know some people understand the importance of it and then you know and some people actually saw the benefits of it once we started the journey.  
Me: Yeah. I mean definitely there was some resistance and some open expression sometimes within the team about this effort that we are lifting. But again, this is a push coming from the data share. So some people continue to, some people understand the importance of it and then, you know, and some people actually saw the benefits of it once we started the journey.  
Them: As they are able to see the deployment times reducing and the quick time that they were able to fix an issue and deploy it. So you know it took different approaches with different team members.  
Me: As they are able to see the deployment times reducing and the quick time that they were able to fix an issue and deploy it. So, you know, it took different approaches with different team members. But again, definitely there is more microservices to manage now rather than one single application deployments. Right. So more number of services to manage, which means more effort on monitoring and observability. And that is something the team had to adjust in terms of approaching the problem rather than just building the surveys. Now we need to and the observability side of things we need to make sure we are able to trace each individual transaction that's coming in and that tracing is carried over as the appraisal is getting submitted in across these components to be an auditing. So because as a fan, as a financial company, we need to have proper monitoring and compliance in place anytime we are asked about a particular transaction, what happened, we should be able to provide the audit log and also we should be able to come back with an answer in a quick manner. Which something we are able to address with this new architecture actually. I mean, yeah, I mean, there are like some benefits to it and then a lot of operational overhead that you've had to go through, shift in the, you know, the approach problem approach. Also something the team had to adjust and, you know, automation was given a very high priority and then the team had to pick up the new automation skills. We used karate framework.  
Them: But again definitely you know there is more microservices to manage now rather than one single application deployments. Right. So more number of services to manage which means more effort on monitoring and observability. And that is something the team had to adjust in terms of approaching a problem rather than just building the surveys. Now we need to add the observability side of things. We need to make sure we are able to trace each individual transaction that's coming in and that tracing is carried over as the appraisal is getting submitted in across these components. Do we have auditing? So because you know as a fan, as a financial company we need to have proper auditing and compliance in place. Anytime we are asked about a particular transaction what happened we should be able to provide the audit log and also we should be able to come back with an answer in a quick manner which something we have we are able to address with this new architecture actually. I mean yeah I mean there are like some benefits to it and then a lot of operational overhead the team had to go through shifting the approach problem approach also something the team had to adjust and you know automation was given a very high priority and then the team had to pick up new automation skills. We used karate framework.  
Me: And how did you, both you and your team, but also sort of the company. In general. Balance this very technical initiative with, I'm sure you're still being asked to build features and improve functionality and things like that. Yeah. Definitely. I mean because the push is coming from leadership, but again there are some asks coming from the customer which we cannot push on. So we needed to balance the supporting the existing.  
Them: Definitely I mean because the push is coming from leadership but again there are some asks coming from the customer which we cannot push on. So we needed to balance the supporting the existing infrastructure along with supporting the software in the new architecture. Right. So I mean we needed to balance it out and at the same time our main concern was that not adding too many features in the legacy system because it will become again a burden to transfer over that features. So we had to get keep for certain things and take only the ones that we can meaningfully achieve and also based on the customer impact identify only those and you know take up on those changes actually. So that was a challenge to navigate.  
Me: Infrastructure along with supporting the software renewal architecture. Right. So I mean we needed to balance it out and at the same time our main concern was that not adding too many features in the legacy system because it will become again accorded to transport that features. So we had to get keep for certain things and take only the ones that we can meaningfully achieve and also based on the customer impact identify only those and take up on those changes actually. So that was a chance. So you mentioned this was this came from leadership. Who specifically decided that you needed to embark on this architectural change.  
Them: I think it just it was coming from the executive team like I think VP of engineering or EVP this push coming where they saw the inefficiencies in a lot of places and decided to go this route.  
Me: I think it was coming from the executor team. Like I think VP of engineering or EVP, this push coming where these are the inefficiencies in a lot of places and decided to go this route. Yeah. Okay. All right. Any follow-ups here?  
Them: Yeah sure I'd like to just follow up on on that question. It was a great question. And how did it change the way that you worked with your product counterparts specifically? Yeah where did you see struggle? Where did you see these changes.  
Me: Yeah, yeah, sure. I'd like to just follow up on that question. It was a great question. How did it change the way that you work with your product counterparts specifically? Yeah. Where did you see struggle? Where did you see these changes.  
Them: Yeah I mean definitely.  
Me: Yeah, I mean definitely.  
Them: In my case in our case at Fannie Mae, I mean definitely there was some fiction that happened with the product team where the product team was aiming for speed right I mean in addressing the customer issues, immediate issues, immediate enhancements versus we spending time on enhancing this architecture. There was a little bit of friction that happened. But again you know in certain cases we had to explain to the product team and the benefits that we are getting from this shift in the architecture and you know how we are able to, you know once we have this architecture in place how we will be able to scale individual components or deploy a particular component in a quick manner. And you know there was something learning kind of thing on both sides that we had to go through. And you know once we had some of the systems, some of the services really deployed in the new architecture. That's not the benefit of this and able to work with us in a much smoother manner.  
Me: In my case, in our case of anime, I mean definitely there was some fiction that happened with the product team where the product team was aiming for speed, right? I mean to point in not just seeing the customer issues, immediate issues, immediate enhancements versus be spending time on enhancing this architecture. There was a little bit of friction that happened, but again in certain cases we had to explain to the product team, the benefits that we are getting from this shift in the architecture and how we are able to once we have this architecture in place, how we will be able to scale individual components or deploy a particular component in equip manner and there was something learning kind of thing on both sides that we had to go through. And once we have some of the systems, some of the services deployed in the new architecture, there's not the benefit of this and able to work with us in a much smoother manner.  
Them: Actually.  
Me: Actually.  
Them: So how did it specifically change the way that they worked with you? Like I acknowledge the point that you're making around the work slowing things down.  
Me: So how did it specifically change the way that they worked with you? Like I acknowledge the point that you're making around the work slowing things down.  
Them: Came satisfying customer request. No issue there.  
Me: Request. No issue there.  
Them: But how did it change things going forward in terms of how you worked with product?  
Me: But how did it change things going forward in terms of how you worked with product?  
Them: So I mean the way, let me think what were the main changes that happened between the product and us. It's mainly the shift in the shift in approaching the problem.  
Me: So I mean the way, let me think what were the main changes that happened between the product and us. It's mainly the shift in the shift in approaching the problem.  
Them: And the main shift was the approach to the problem actually and also being able to have rather than trying to achieve bigger big size stories. You know we were able to break them down and deliver them as a small chunks and like more on the iterative approach. This particular microservices architecture provided us the ability to ship individual components and the product team needed to work with us to have you know smaller chunks of deployments much frequent right I mean previously we used to have you know deployment every three months four months like that. But now the deployments are happening more frequently. So that means we need to identify product team needs to identify the issues or immediate enhancement that we need to make within a single component rather than deploying as a whole. We needed to identify those areas and you know deploy them. So I mean that shift in working with the product team was something we I noticed in this thing.  
Me: And the main shift was the approach to the problem actually and also being able to have rather than trying to achieve bigger big size stories. You know, we were able to break them down and deliver them as a small chance and like more on iterative approach. This particular microservices architecture provided us the ability to ship individual components and the product you needed to work with us to have smaller chunks of deployments and not much treatment, right? I mean previously we used to have deployment every three months, four months back there, but now the deployments are happening more frequently. So that means we need to identify product team needs to identify the issues or immediate enhancement that we need to make within a single component rather than deploying as a whole. We needed to identify those areas and deploy them. So I mean that shift in working with the productivity was something we I noticed in this.  
Them: And just one follow up there. So it sounds like the decision was made on the engineering side. But there wasn't full agreement.  
Me: Just one follow up there. So it sounds like the decision was made on the engineering side, but there wasn't full agreement.  
Them: At the VP level or sea level with product.  
Me: At the VP level or sea level with product.  
Them: No, I mean there was agreement. But again but again the agreement was made but again when it comes to the actual working synchronous you know working between the product and engineering. You know we had to go through this shift in the mindset in approaching this new delivery mechanism actually.  
Me: No, I mean there was agreement. But again, or again the agreement was made but again when it comes to the actual working. Synchronous working between the product and engineering, you know, we had to go through this shift in the mindset in approaching this new delivery mechanism. Actually.  
Them: Go ahead. Thank you.  
Me: Go ahead. Thank you. Okay. Let's see. I'm looking at the clock here. How much time we have. So related to that maybe kind of more of a specific question. So can you tell us about a time when you had to push back on a product request because of technical constraints? If you can give an example.  
Them: Yeah, I mean definitely there were like multiple times I had to push back on certain things keeping the product in context. So I mean this goes back to my time at zipper technologies where our product was such a hit with the NFL and NFL teams. And then there is this opportunity that the product team saw in using this product as a proof of concept for college football games, the NCAA recess bomb and senior ball games championship games. And the time there wasn't enough time for us the very less time within within a month they wanted to deploy this new product for the NCAA championship game and they were like main three requests that were asked to be able to broadcast this information live to all the broadcasters and also to be able to roster them roster the players and being able to tag the players. So there was no clear cut standard in place at the time. So we had to push back on certain things as a, I mean as a leader championing this whole effort. I have conveyed that you know we could take the rostering and tagging kind of features but again integration with the broadcasters is a tough thing to do and you know I had to negotiate on that though it has a lot of visibility for the product itself. At the same time it might put the reputation of the product at risk considering the amount of time we have in integrating with the broadcasters. And so I had to push back on that. But again rather than being direct. I have conveyed the message in a meaningful way with empathy and you know conveying the complexities that we needed to tackle before we could raise it meaningfully. And the result of that was that they were able to deploy the solution for this championship games for the college football and we were able to track the players and then we were able to show the insights in the dashboards. And you know it was a good insights for the college teams.  
Me: Yeah, I mean definitely there were like multiple clients. I had to push back on certain things keeping the product in context. So I mean this goes back to my time at super technology. It's there on a product was such a hit with the NFL and FM teams. And then there is this opportunity that the product team saw in using this product as a proof of concept for college football games, the NCAA research bomb and sensitive mobile games championship games. And the time there was a kind of time for us, the very last time we wanted to deploy this new product for the NCAA championship game and they were like made three requests were asked to be able to broadcast this information line to all the broadcast funds and also to be able to roster them players and being able to tag the players. So there was no clear cut standard in place at the time. So we had to pull back on certain things as a leader champion in this whole effort. I have convinced that we could take the rostering and tagging kind of features. But again integration with the broadcasters is they're talking to you and you know I had to negotiate on that though it has a lot of visibility for the product itself. At the same time it might put reputation of the product at risk considering the amount of time we have in integrating with the broadcasters. And so I have to push back on that. But again rather than being direct, I have compared the message in a meaningful way with anthropy and you know conveying the complexities that we needed to tackle before we could release it meaningfully. As you know the result of that was that you were able to deploy the solution for this championship games for the college football and we were able to track the players and we were able to show the insights in the dashboards and you know it was a bit insights for the college team. S for that. Okay.  
Them: For that.  
Me: All right. So you push if I heard that correctly you basically you felt like. The functionality and the features that were asked for there was not enough time to deliver them is that right? So how was that received then by I guess by product in this case what what was the response?  
Them: Yeah, that's right. Yeah I mean the product team was definitely not happy that we could not broadcast live these metrics or insights. But again they understood the fact that it is in the you know in the long term for the benefit of the product reputation because being it's a championship game we don't want to have you know defects or bugs going into the system.  
Me: Yeah I mean the product team was definitely not happy that we could not broadcast live these metrics are in size. But again they understood the fact that it isn't in the long term for the benefit of the product deputation because being it's a championship game we don't want to have. You know defects on bugs going into the system because one of big NVLeague and all the NHL leaks are also watching these initiatives so you don't want to look bad there and they are kind of understood the point and able to, I was able to negotiate on that.  
Them: Because a lot of big you know NBA league and all the NHL leaks are also watching these initiatives. So we don't want to look bad there and they are kind of understood the point and able to, I was able to negotiate on that.  
Me: Okay. Lauren follow-ups there otherwise I'm going to pivot. Nope go ahead and pivot then we should probably allow him a little time. Yeah so so so talk to me about how you both personally and your team use AI agentic.  
Them: Go ahead and pivot and then we should probably allow him a little time. Yeah.  
Me: Workflows, AI in general in the software development process. Or and and beyond I should say in your work in general I guess. Yeah.  
Them: Definitely yeah thanks for the question Martin. I think see right now with Fannie we have a very big push in general.  
Me: Definitely. Yeah thanks for the question. I think the right now it finally we have a very big push in general.  
Them: To use AI in our day to day development.  
Me: To use AI in our day to day development.  
Them: And we are using cloud and copilot in our day to day development.  
Me: And we are using cloud and copilot in our day-to-day development heavily and I see this is going to increase going forward.  
Them: Heavily. And I see this is going to increase going forward making you know I see the benefits of using it.  
Me: Making you know I see the benefits of using it and as a as I am still hands on and everything I see the shift in amount of time and spending during the day towards the development activities previously versus now. But again it comes.  
Them: And as I'm still hands on and everything. I see the shift in amount of time I'm spending during the towards development activities previously versus now. But again it comes. You know we need to approach with a caution right now because of the current state of the AI. We need to make sure that whatever code that we are adding through using this AI tools we are able to validate and you know have enough guardrails to make sure that there is no there is no bad actors that are getting into this code. There's still some incidents happening here and there. So even though you are using AI to write the code end of the day as an individual you are responsible for the code that you are submitting. So that still carries. And again there is a lot of verbose code that comes with AI coding and we need to make sure and be cognizant about that.  
Me: To approach with a caution right now because of the current state of the AI. We need to make sure that whatever code that we are adding through using this AI tools we are able to validate and you know have enough guidelines to make sure that there is no there's no bad actors that are getting into this code. And there's still some instance happening here and there so you are using AI to write the poor end of the day as an individual you are responsible for the code that you are submitting. So that still carries and again there is a lot of those code that comes with AI coding and we need to make sure and pre-cognizant about that one example one of the functional area I was working on the AI role like 100 plus test cases which is like not needed. You need a meaningful of 10 to 12 test casements for that particular functionality for a good code coverage making sure that we have proper checks in place during the code review 7 everything was responsibility as well as a developer. I mean overall we are using I see the usage of AI not only with the coding but also improving the other processes as well being code reviews and being able to in some cases we have recently demored a future where we translate the requirements into meaningful stories in Jira itself. So you know there is more and more push to use AI there in multiple places. So it's only point clickers. So what have you done with your team to introduce these capabilities or these tools and how have your.  
Them: One example one of the functional area I was working on the AI route like 100 plus test cases which is like not needed. You need a meaningful of 10 to 12 test cases for that particular functionality for a good code coverage, you know making sure that we have proper checks in place during a code reviews and everything. And it also goes to the individual's responsibility as well as a developer. I mean overall we are using I see the usage of AI not only with the coding but also in the improving the other processes as well being it code reviews and being able to, you know in some cases we have recently demoed a feature where we translate the requirements into meaningful stories in g writes out. So you know there is more and more push to use AI there in multiple places. So it's only going to increase.  
Me: How have things changed for you in any way in the process or how the work is done and where specifically do you use AI? Can you just paint the bigger paint a bit more detailed picture of what's going on in your team right now and how you have sort of affected that.  
Them: Yeah.  
Me: Yeah I mean so I mean there is this concern within the team that by using AI, we are going to use our cognitive skills which is valid to some extent. You know, I think I always keep for an analogy before Google was there the August hand coded our code. But this is cool came stack overflow came there are a lot of things in our we are taking for granted and using and but at the same time you make sure that the code is valid and it's correct. Right. So the same thing goes here as well. I mean your air is going to speed things up and you need to embrace AI to make more productive. And the other thing is this is one thing I can developers is that you know you don't need to remember all the libraries, the individual methods, right? Because that is going to change time to time and once the new library worship comes up the old one become deprecated are obsolete. So you know you don't need to remember all of that. All you need to remember is the logic and approach the design and architecture. That is what you need to make sure that we are doing right. And also towards encouraging the team to use AI. You know we have a frequent showcases within the company where we showcase how a particular approach or prompts help teams in multiple days or weeks of job with simplified lot of things for the individual developer which provides us an encouragement for individuals who are kind of hesitating little bit. So I mean those sessions also help to make them aware of it.  
Them: I mean so I mean there is this concern within the team that by using AI we are going to use our cognitive skills. Which is valid to some extent. You know I always pick one analogy before Google was there we always hand coded our own on the code. But since Google came stack overflow came there were a lot of things you know we are we are taking for granted and using and but at the same time you make sure that the code is valid and you know it's correct. Right. So the same thing goes here as well. I mean to speed things up. And you need to embrace AI to make more productive. And the other thing is this is one thing I tell developers is that you know you don't need to remember all the libraries individual methods right because that is going to change time to time and once the new library version comes up the old one become deprecated or obsolete. So you know you don't need to remember all of that. All you need to remember is the logic and approach the design and architecture. That is what you need to make sure that we are doing right. And also towards encouraging the team to use AI, you know we have a frequent showcases within the company where we showcase how a particular approach or prompts helped teams save you know multiple days or weeks of job how we've simplified a lot of things for the individual developer which provides us an encouragement for individuals who are kind of hesitating little bit. So I mean those sessions also help to make them aware of it.  
Me: Okay.  
Them: Is it changing the way that you're working with product like what sort of inputs for example are changing as a result of the use of AI?  
Me: Is it changing the way that you're working with product like what sort of inputs for example or changing as a result of the use of AI.  
Them: No, I mean definitely the product team is happy that we are shipping more things and shipping more and more. But at the same time product is also concerned about the stability of the product as we are building more and more features using AI. So we needed to, but the good thing is that we have enough checks and balances in place with every branch that we commit. So I mean we need to provide that assurance to the product team but the product team is happy right now with the velocity being increased and being able to deploy more frequently.  
Me: Definitely the product team is happy that we are shipping your things and shipping more and more. But at the same time product is also concerned about stability of the product as we are building more and more features using AI. So we needed to, but the good thing is that we have enough checks and balances in place with every branch that we commit. So I mean we need to provide that assurance to the product team but the product team is happy right now with the velocity being increased and being able to add more frequently.  
Them: So they're still writing epics and stories for your team. Is that correct? Yes they are still writing but again you know that might change too soon as they get more skilled in UI using these AI tools. I think that might change.  
Me: So they're still writing epics and stories for your team. Is that correct? Yes skill writing but again you know that might change too soon as they get more. Skilled in UI using the AI tools. I think that might change. I'm going to take one last question and then pivot over to you. So talk to me about how you approach to performance management. Goal setting, how you. Hold people accountable and you talked about career development and so on. Talk to me about this whole piece of your job. How you approach it.  
Them: So when it comes to setting the goals for the team you know I try to make sure the goals I am setting for the team members are you know for the team are aligned with the company's scores.  
Me: So when it comes to setting up goals for the team, you know I try to make sure the phones I am sitting for the team members or for the team are aligned with the company's goals. And I try to have clear and achievable goals, simple measurable and achievable goals is what I try to come up with. And also when I set the goals we usually have at the beginning of the year we have this course set. And these goals we review on a quarterly basis with the team and refine them or modify them as a priority change or the team members productivity changes.  
Them: And I try to have clear and achievable goals. You know simple measurable and achievable goals is what I try to come up with. And also when I set the goals we usually have you know at the beginning of the year we have this goal set and these goals we review on a quarterly basis with the team and refine them or modify them as the priority change or the team members productivity changes. So we review these and we try to evaluate as a media review and also towards the end of the year we have a review session and understanding what went wrong and what can be improved.  
Me: So we review these and we try to evaluate as a media review and also through our end of the year we have a review session. That understanding what control and what can be improved and how well he did.  
Them: And how well he did. And also if an individual is kind of struggling with delivering goals if it comes out that in the during the quarterly reviews or during based on his performance from sprint to sprint, I try to have tried to bring up deals in the one on one sessions work with him or the individual to adjust the goals or change priorities. And again the one thing I try to make sure is I try to align the boards towards the company goals so that the team also feels achieved and feels meaningful in their goals.  
Me: And also if an individual is kind of struggling with delivering goals, if it comes out that in the during the quarterly news or during based on his performance from sprint to sprint, I try to have to bring up these one-on-one sessions work with him or the individual to adjust the goals or change priorities. And again the one thing I try to make sure is I try to align the goals towards the company goals so that the team also feels achieved and feels meaningful in their course actually.  
Them: Actually.  
Me: What are your standing rituals or meetings that you have in order to. Manage your team. Aside from the agile rituals but what are your. When it comes to management and leadership.  
Them: Yeah I mean I try to have frequent one on one conversations monthly one-on-ones and also I try to have a lot of casual conversations if possible. I mean being remote kind of in office communication might be missing but I try to have casual meetings within the team to just get to know each other on a personal level. That is something I do and also I try to celebrate small milestones that we deliver right I mean so that the team feels achieved and feel complete about delivering a feature or something. And also I try to encourage now we are in the remote world so try to encourage teams to use the video for the most part of the time so that whatever the other person is trying to say becomes more appealing and convincing or whatever. So I mean yeah I try to encourage teams to get to know each other on a personal level so that it becomes more even more bonding. Yeah, I mean stand up meetings sorry one-on-one meetings and regular check-ins keeping the constant communication and on slack or teams. So that's that's what I try to do on a day to day basis.  
Me: Yeah, I mean I try to have frequency one-on-one conversations monthly one-on-ones and also I try to have a lot of casual conversations if possible. I mean being remote kind of in office communication might be missing but I try to have casual meetings within the team to just know each other on a personal level. That is something I do and also I try to celebrate small mindset that we deliver right I mean so that the team feels achieved and. Being field. Complete about delivering a feature or something. And also I try to encourage now we are in the remote world so try to encourage teams to use the digital for the most part of the time so that whatever the other person is trying to say becomes more appealing that convincing or whatever. So I mean I try to encourage teams to get to know each other first level so that it becomes more even more bonding. Yeah, I mean a stand-up meetings sorry one-on-one meetings and regular check-ins keeping the constant communication and on slack or teams. So that's what I try to do on a day-to-day basis. Okay. Great all right well we have about five minutes four minutes left here so I want to pivot over to you see if you have any questions for us about company or our roles or anything else that might have come up throughout the process.  
Them: Yeah definitely. So I'm trying to understand what are the near term business opportunities for ghrex. And I mean what are the gaps or opportunities for improvement we are seeing in the product getting.  
Me: Yeah definitely. So I'm trying to understand what are the near term business opportunities for GHX. And I mean what are the gaps or opportunities for improvement we are seeing in the product getting there. Yeah okay so a couple of sort of a two pronged question there. So business opportunities. So I don't know if you've gathered this but we recently have a new majority investor that is vertossed and has come in with in a very positive way I would say they are basically looking right now trying to decide where to inject capital basically to accelerate growth and other things that we might not have been able to focus on so much in the past. So that's that when you asked about company goals that that I think I'm just going to leave it at that because I think that tells the story pretty much. If you look at what I and Laura are working on so maybe you've gathered this already but we also have a so we have a this exchange product that we talked about is again what the company was founded around more or less. It's been around for a long time and also to a large extent the monolith similar to what you're describing. And some of the problems that you mentioned we are suffering from as well. You know it's very takes a long time. It's a big effort to deploy and we're not moving as quickly as we would want to and things like that. So this is definitely a focus for us is to unshackle ourselves from this and get to a place where we can move and deliver much faster than we can today.  
Them: There.  
Me: So I think I'm just going to yeah if I dive in it deeper we're going to spend hours on that I don't know Laura you probably want to add something.  
Them: I thought that was beautiful and I think it's all about trade offs balancing commercial growth.  
Me: I think it's all about trade-offs right commercial balancing commercial growth with shoring up and improving the system so we can move faster. Yeah and I would say that so that's that's kind of the long that's not done overnight right like but if you're if you're if I were.  
Them: With shoring up and improving the system so we can move faster. Yeah.  
Me: Just encapsulate what we are grappling with on a daily basis or weekly basis it's what Laura just said which is balancing you know basically prioritization and deciding what what's most important. But also how to make progress incrementally like nobody wants nobody wants two year projects and so on right that is like that's. I feel like that is a huge part of our job how to manage to organization through gradual incremental improvements that are kind of delivering value as we go along.  
Them: Balance. Yeah yeah that is that's definitely a challenge. How do we support the existing systems while we also deliver this new architecture?  
Me: That's definitely a challenge. How do we support the existing systems while we also deliver this new architecture? Yeah if I may ask one more question. Yeah go for it.  
Them: Here. Yeah if I may ask one more question in the current I know you are following agile process right now and are there any process inefficiencies that is holding from towards this new architecture.  
Me: So in the current I know you are following agile process right now and are there any process inefficiencies that is holding from towards this new architecture. So I'll answer quickly and then maybe Laura want to chime in too. So I think so there are but we're fixing them I should say and we're very far along. So I think in the engineering team we've had a little bit what I would call kind of an old school engineering organization that with large teams owning large systems collectively or co-owning large systems. Part of this shift to more of a modern architecture is reflected in how we're changing the organization too. So small autonomous teams that. Should have the autonomy and the agency to work and make progress completely on their own. Right. So before this or a couple of years ago I spent four years at spotify which is very very good at this right I'm maybe you've seen some of the videos around this way working and that is I'm a firm believer. I've seen the machine working beautifully in that model and that's what we're pivoting to that way working. And I think it's safe to say that Laura is on the same page and we want to I think we're we're not fully there yet but we've got. Ten quite far. Actually.  
Them: And this is a critical role in carrying it forward.  
Me: Yep and this is a critical role in character.  
Them: So yeah.  
Me: Yeah actually that's a good call. Hems this is why we're talking today. That's why we're hiring four, five, six engineering managers is because we didn't used to have this. Concept of engineering managers that completely there are player coaches that work with the team and they work autonomously. Yeah.  
Them: I mean I see that not only breaking from the monolith into microservices, but you're also kind of breaking apart the teams so that they can work as individual parts on their own. Sounds great.  
Me: I mean I see that not only breaking from the model if you do microservices but you're also kind of breaking up on the teams so that they can forecast individual parts on their own software if I may ask one last question.  
Them: If I may ask one last question. So. Rry in this initiative for this particular position what does success look like maybe 12 months down the line?  
Me: In this initiative for this particular position what does success look like maybe 12 months I think I just met I think I just I'm just going to refer back to my previous answer almost which is success is you are running autonomously with your team. So you're in control over the full SDLC you can release your services or your product to production when you already when you want you have a great and part of that mix is your product counterpart right and so basically the two of you together together with your team can operate independently of as long as you're not breaking any apis or any other contracts with the world around you, you are moving at your speed.  
Them: Okay.  
Me: And yeah that is a good success to me.  
Them: Delivering the results. Yep.  
Me: And of course all the Dora metrics or whatever they come with it you deploy often and frequently and your PRs are not old and things like that.  
Them: Excellent. Yeah.  
Me: Right.  
Them: The change failure rate and keeping the mttr under control. Yeah, sounds good.  
Me: Change failure rate keeping the MTTR control.  
Them: Cool yeah those are all I have sorry.  
Me: Okay. No, yeah, I was just going to say now I have I do have to go fire you have to jump on something else here five minutes after the hour so yeah no that's fine thank you so much for your time appreciate it enjoyed our conversation.  
Them: Yeah. Thank you. Yeah yeah.  
Me: And we should get back to you shortly. I think.  
Them: Excellent yeah thank you very much for your time Martin and Laura nice talking to you nice to meet you thank you.  
Me: Actually yeah thank you very much for your time Martin and Laura a nice talk to you nice to meet you thank you thank you bye bye. 