---
tags:
  - Product
  - Customer
  - Communication
  - Process-Improvement
  - email
  - correspondence
content_type: email
destination_category: 60-69 Archive
kb_insights: false
date: 2026-03-23
---
Hi CJ,

Here is a follow-up on this per your request (I and Laura T. tag-teamed on this):

Here’s what we think happened:
1. We had originally committed to Q1.
2. Due to a staffing change (Sibi quitting) and competing priorities, this initiative was shifted to start in March.
3. The new plan was communicated to Robin (Smith & Nephew) by Radha in February, not committing to anything more specific than H1. I’m not sure if we have a record of that conversation, and if we did, whether it would have mattered.
4. Robin missed/did not remember that Radha moved the date from Q1 to H1. 
5. Then in the following meeting (that spawned the first email in the chain), Robin misunderstood that there was a delay to Q3. Radha believes this may have come from a discussion of the release window being June or July, depending on code freeze window around Summit. Again, I’m not sure if we have a record of that conversation and if we did, if it would have mattered.

Said differently, a combination of an internal staffing shift and misaligned interpretations of the revised plan and the release window led to the project being perceived as a Q3 delay, when it is on track for Q2. 

**Note:** Radha has since clarified all this with Robin (Smith & Nephew), and she is aligned with the current approach and comfortable with the timeline.

Here are some process improvement notes provided by Product (Laura):

1. *When the original commitment shifted, pivoting to a broader timeframe (H1) was vague and less than ideal. It would have been better to state the shift is to Q2, and if possible, a specific month. We recognize that target month may not be possible, especially around Summit release schedule. In addition, we should also be clear to distinguish the date the work will be done from the date the work will be released.*
2. *Are meeting summaries being captured and sent? Hallie is the meeting owner for these quick check meetings where this info is being communicated. She may, in fact, be sending these summaries, as that is not always a silver bullet for miscommunication/misperception.*
3. *This issue appears to have been escalated to the C-level less than 24 hours after the initial email was sent. Ideally, we would allow a business cycle for the product lead (Josh) to provide context before a customer’s perception (which was since corrected) becomes a C-suite fire drill.*