### My Notes ###
- Spend a lot of time on very old experiences... a little out of touch/missing the mark
- Bullshit detector is going off here...
- Goes on tangents all the time... 
- Experiences
	- Logi Analytics
		- Outdated / experiences... concerning use of vocabulary:
			- "haven't had a chance to use the Azure Tables" - Azure Tables is not a product
	- Fannie Mae
		- Again very long in the tooth, spending time on non-data topics
	- Capital One
	- US Bank
- Data products
	- All the relational
	- MongoDB 10 years ago
		- Claims Mongo now support SQL
- Managed data products?
	- Have not done a lot... 
- How do you chose between products
	- Relational
		- transactional
	- NoSQL
- **This is a clear pass. Makes me wonder why the agency thought he was a good fit.**

### Transcript from Granola ###

Them: Is probably a little bit more agile and a little bit more up to date than theirs because every organization that I have ever been involved with has had stuff that's been in place in various areas. Some of it has been used, let's say monthly, to do batch processing, and it could be 20 years old, but it does what it needs and nobody changes it, nobody touches it. So I can understand that. And then as you build new things, what I found is adding new features or new capabilities, one of the advantages is you start leaning more into the modern tech stack. And that's where you sort of, I mean, we coined it peel the post. It could be called the strangler fig pattern where you're sort of moving functionality off of a monolith. The one caveat that I always. Try to embody. Because. To me microservices are a buzzword. They have their place and they need to be, they can be utilized, but there's specific times you would utilize them. And they would really give you a benefit because you're, you're, there's a trade off. One is in latency, one is in things like the ability to debug because you're depending on how much you break it apart and spread it out. Plus you can have interdependencies. One of the things I saw at Capital One and I. Thought against was what I called a distributed monolith. Where you couldn't deploy a single microservice.  
Me: Yeah.  
Them: You had to deploy all of them. And I'm like, what's the advantage?  
Me: Yeah. Yeah.  
Them: So, so yeah, you got to be careful.  
Me: We're definitely not. Yeah, I don't. We're not falling in that trap. We're very pragmatic about it, not trying to go to a textbook microservice architecture. It's actually more about where you address it, more you talked about in the end there to get.  
Them: But.  
Me: Individual teams to just be able to run autonomously and deploy their pieces on their own schedule as long as. No contracts are broken, so to speak, then they might sit on a minimon lift and that might be fine. So that. Yeah. So I think we're pragmatic about it.  
Them: Yeah, and we always looked at.  
Me: So.  
Them: What we called the paved road. And you could get on the shoulder, but you had to have a reason to get on the. So like when it came to the tech stack, you might have java, python react node, few principal languages, but a new flavor of javascript comes out and a team wants to use it because it meets the requirements. They're kind of going off on their own potentially. And that limits the ability for different team members to come in and out and you can transfer that knowledge easily because somebody moving over to that may have never seen the language. So we always had the paved road with some guardrails. But if you could justify it, you could kind of go off, but the organization couldn't directly support you.  
Me: Yeah. Yeah. So part of. Part of this is. I would just describe it as bridging in part the point of this role here is bridging the gap between what I would call sort of fairly traditional, fairly traditional infra devops, dba function, and then the engineering teams. So we. We have. We have traditionally, at least, we have a bit of a. We've had a bit of a gap there. Where. So that's what we're looking to fill. So they. Data architecture, choosing the right product for the job. How do. How. To. Model and. And store data given the intended usage patterns and. And things like that. So. Yeah. So if you can just. I mean, I guess. Just give me a kind of a. Give me a big picture summary of what you've been up to in your career and. And. And so on. And maybe. Yeah. As it relates to that, that would be great.  
Them: Okay. When I got out of college, just to take it way back, but when I got out of college, one of the things I had been doing was helping. My girlfriend at the time. She would call me with questions because she was working. And for programming and databases. The company she worked at did telecom data. So it was tracking things like different types of private lines, user codes, all that kind of stuff. And what they would do is sell it to organizations. Those organizations would be regional bail operating companies or long distance carriers, you know, like your sprint, your AT&T, things like that. They would use that to price out their networks and to manage things. So that's what that data was. So that's where I started highly relational data. But from there, I went into. A company called logging analytics. Logic analytics, what they did is they sold a tool. That was designed to give organizations. They would stand it up at their location on a server and it would serve through the browsers. Business analytics. So they would define their own report. And somebody would write reports, build dashboards, do whatever. And then when they run, when, when I'd go to that URL, it would run and pull that data. Shape it, transform it. And put it into whatever the UI specific graph a line, a stacked bar, whatever. But it would, I would, and my job was to build the data engine. The principal problem they were having is they were running out of memory. And I had to come in and optimize their code. What they had done is written the original tool in VB six and just basically started using it in vb.net. And I was a C dot net developer primarily at that point. I had gone through Pascal and all kinds of other languages. But at that point I was doing a lot of C. And so I wrote the engine in C, the engine replaced everything they had in a completely updated the technology behind it. My job was to hook to any data source. Relational. Eventually with no sequel came out because new sequel was fairly new, primarily mongo at the time, but we were doing some AWS. We didn't, I didn't get to any of the Azure database tables, but the APIs, when you talk to them, a type four API, getting to a database system is a type four API. Getting to the Mongos and things like that. Mongo had three ways of pulling data from their no sequels. And it was the aggregate, the find and the. Can't remember the third, but I did apis for all three. I also did stuff to pull data from Twitter. And Google analytics. So my job was to hook to data anywhere. That data would come in. I would then transform it according to the rules they provided. So in the definition that the business would create or the developer at the corporation. So in other words, if we sold you this tool, you would say, I want to connect to this data. And I want these fields out of it and I want to take this and multiply it by tax rate of 1.06 or whatever. And I, you could massage the data. You could group it. You can join it. I could join my oracle data to the limited file or I could join it to a mysql or a postgres or it doesn't matter. Data is dated to me. So that's what my primary responsibility and I ended up writing there. I built their ETL tool completely. I did the data engine that went into their info product, which is what it was called at the time. I think they've renamed it, but it was used to be logi info. And logi ad hoc was the other one. So my data engine went into everything. And I managed all the teams. Connecting with each product team and they would just pull my repo or the or the compiled artifact, whichever they preferred. And link it in as a library. So that's logi. Then I went to Fannie Mae and it was really a different gig. At Fannie Mae. I was pulled there because one of the parents of a scout who was in my son's troop, he was asking me all these questions during the troop meetings because, you know, parents kind of go off and the kids have their troop meeting. And I mean, I was I did the advancement chair for it, but that didn't happen every troop meeting. So we would all just sit there and talk and he would go, Rick, how come I'm having these problems with these developers? They ended up pulling me over there and wanted me to automate their code quality process. And they had a program that they were paying top dollar for. I mean sonar cube is probably more famous, but it does what I would call a light touch code quality scan. Whereas cast software had their tools and they had two of them. One was highlight and the other one I think was just called cast software. And highlight was a light touch, but the cast software tool, they were paying and it took two weeks to 10 business days and dedicated individual to onboard each application for a code quality scan and performant. Then if you wanted to do a rescan and took another three days. Fannie Mae had 500 apps. So they needed a lot and they were paying for these people. They wanted me to automate it. The company told them it wasn't possible. I said, I can do it. So they picked me up. I ended up automating it. Uh, we would go to their conference. And at the last conference, I think DOD was there, IRS state department. I don't know which department of DOD, but, and they were there and they were talking about, you know, we had five people, I think AT&T was there and they had 80 people dedicated. They had scanned 80 full time people they were paying. They had scanned all their applications once over the last five years. I had at Fannie Mae half a person. And they were just there to do one step and it took them about. 15 minutes. The rest of the entire process was fully automated. And the other organizations, the top had scanned about 5 million lines of code in six months. I had my automation step had scanned 300 million. And it was part of the pipeline, although it was asynchronous. Because a code quality scan that was that in depth was could take anywhere from an hour to 12 hours depending on the size of the code base. Then I went to capital one, did the models did the S3 reader. Which I submitted for a patent and never heard back, but that was kind of around the time covid. So I don't know if I got lost in the shuffle. But that and we started working from home. And then my boss at capital one went to us bank. He talked to a VP there. They brought me over. So I started working there or a senior vehicle. I don't know. They called it something. I never been great on titles. I put what they tell me to put. But I went there, I was on two of the committees, one for the mainframe architectural changes, one for the modern tech stack. There were, there was probably eight people on each. Committee and about three or four overlapped. I overlapped and what we would do is teams would submit architectural changes. We would ask probing questions. I would try to fail the system. I always do that. I do that with everything I write. I want to fail it. Okay, I break this. What happens? What do you do? What happens to the record? Because it's financial data. It was primarily the segment I was in was credit cards. So it was credit card authorizations and payments and things like that. So we had an SLA that for our segment of it was 20 milliseconds. And I had two primary projects that I kicked off and I was the sort of the tech lead one and one of them was for a spend limit for a client that requested it, which they ended up buying. But the spend limit itself was going to be hooked into the main authorization path because it would still go from the like the association visa down to US bank because us bank did their own credit card authorizations. They were one of the few financial institutions. And they would check is the account valid? Does it have available funds? Is it a fraudulent transaction? So they would sort of do all the primaries. Then it would come to us and we'd have 20 milliseconds to get back and say, oh, Rick, you're using your card to go at the target store, but you're not allowed to do that. You're only allowed to use it for gas. Or something. So it would decline it or go rick's buying gas. It's cool. Authorize it. And effectively that was that was one of the principal projects. They one of the things I found is they leaned very heavily into the spring data JPA, which is a good, I think, tool and a good prototyping tool especially, but they didn't understand what it was doing in the background. You got to understand that. You can't use and I always write with jdbc just raw when I'm in java, I write raw JDBC. I don't link in hibernate or spring. I do for some things. But I need to know what it's doing under the covers. And so I started probing them and saying, do you guys know what this is doing because it's it was raised in the hairs on my neck. And they were testing it with the simplest, smallest. I think there were three spend limit records in the database and they were one or two things. And I'm like, no, no, no, no. And I talked to the customer and said, what's the expected spend limit? And he gave me an example one and I ran it and took 39 minutes to do an approval with their code. So I spent the weekend rewrote it, got it to five milliseconds.  
Me: So what. What? In summary then, what can. What are some of the data. Data products. That you. That you consider yourself proficient in.  
Them: Pretty much all the relationals, at least all the majors, and a k2 I didn't use much of. But on my machine at logi, I had installed local copies of postgres, microsoft, hp vertica, oracle. All free versions. But, you know, oracle free version. Who am I forgetting? Microsoft oracle because they all pretty much use sql 92. The big difference. One of the things I did at logi also is I wrote something that was, it was called sequel. Dialect. Basically what it would do is it would take. The, if the user wanted to do interactions on the dashboard. They wanted to say sort. Now you could sort if it's a small set of records, but let's say your data set is 50 million rows. I'm not first of all sending that to the browser. You're going to use infinite paging. So we would set that up. But so I had that capability. But we also had the capability where they could do operations in the browser. I would modify the sequel. So I had a dialect for each database system that I was connected to. And it took about four hours to hook one in to support all of the operations. So I'm very comfortable with the sequels, with the no sequels. Mongo I use again. This was what 2015? Was the last time I'd have to go back and look at my resume. I can do that. But it was a while ago. It could have been 10 years. They a lot of them have changed and now support sequel. I don't know if they fully support sql92 dialect, but they do. The concepts are the same. You have columnar stores, you have document stores and you have standard rows and records. So you got to understand, you know, I to me, I like to know what's happening. The vector databases are another sort of new twist with the transformers and the which I'm honestly having a lot of fun with, but I'm also finding a lot of problems with. And it's not in what they're doing, but it's what they're selling people. These are replacement systems. And I've tested several of them that were built for languages and one of them I asked it to build. I had a one page script. And I asked the coding tool. I said build me a one page build me. A script to do this. It got to 23 files. And was still going after like 20 minutes and I finally just killed it. I'm like. Why is it doing this? And I looked at the code and it was horrible. And even when it does quote unquote work or make changes, like if I give it my code and say examine this, it would make changes and I would look at the changes and not see the most efficient or quality approach. So data to me is data. I can pretty much connect to anything because the principal rule when it comes to database. Now you have data just, I'm sorry, I diverge sometime. Data data databases can serve multiple purposes production databases are tuned for throughput. Right? Reporting databases are typically thrown for analytics. You want to be able to, so the data could be in a different shape and it normalized or changed in a way. So I don't want to run reports on my production database. Because I don't want to draw power from it. I want to do, I want to replicate it off or use an ETL process to pull it out and build the data mart. Or a data warehouse or a data lake.  
Me: So how. Yeah. I mean, every. Every type of data store has its place. Right. So how do you choose. What. How do you choose between relational NoSQL document databases? Like what. What are some kind of high level criteria that. That you would put out there?  
Them: Basic criteria would be for something like a relational be highly transactional and typically modifying individual items like individual records. Maybe you're inserting item orders or updating prices on things or updating addresses, but it could be highly transactional systems. No sequel to me are tend to be document stores. They're more flexible in their schemas and you can store stuff. But and I know they've gotten a lot better probably within the last two to three years where you can do updates to things, but they're still not, to me something like that. No sequel will scale because a lot of them have are just, they were designed initially with clusters. Cassandra, documentDB, all of these have clustered systems. And if you design your keys correctly, you don't want hot clusters. You kind of want to spread the data evenly in an ideal world. You may start evenly and you may get into a hot cluster. You may have to shard that cluster. There's so it requires a slightly different approach and management. But I wouldn't do like a whole bunch of orders for tiny things logs that you drop and just leave perfect for those things like document stores.  
Me: So what managed. What managed data services do you have? Would you say that you have good experience with.  
Them: I've only done. A few of the AWS and it's the cloudera and we did a little bit of Cassandra, but I wasn't allowed to do the management I wanted to do. They walked us at US bank use Cassandra. And that's not really, but it was there hosted on their system. So I don't know if you call that because manage is typically managed by like AWS, Google, Microsoft. Those are your managed solution redshift would be a managed RDS. Yeah, you can kind of argue it's managed. You don't have to apply the manage the OS, the patches, the updates to the system and things like that. But I haven't done a lot because the US bank was mainly using Cassandra. They wanted to get to Microsoft. That was one of the things they initially wanted to do. Then they changed. Probably about six months before the release of my projects that I was working with. From Microsoft. To AWS. Then they went from AWS to on-prem. So we had to go through a few architectural changes. And they wanted us to be Cassandra and we were using Microsoft SQL was the other mandated relational. So we were doing the mandated relational with Microsoft SQL and I designed the tables and the relationships for that so that it would be highly efficient, which it worked great. And then the Cassandra was a document store and we could do GraphQL to do the mutate commands and things like that and get through. But that's what we had to do.  
Me: Right. Okay. All right. I think that's all we got time for in this iteration here. Any. Any questions for me here?  
Them: I know it's been. I think it was April 7th I applied or something like that. So it's been a little while. What I'm wondering is, I don't know honestly, if you have my latest resume with the CISSP on it.  
Me: Okay.  
Them: Your bark should be right on the top with my name.  
Me: Yeah. No. Yeah, I do. Yep. Yep.  
Them: Okay. Yeah, okay. Because I did achieve the CISSP and I got the 5 AWS certificates. I got the data one. I thought about getting the developer, but honestly, I've been working on my own applications. I'm hoping to release. Maybe get to full testing in June 1.  
Me: Cool.  
Them: 3.  
Me: Okay. Yeah. So, yeah, it looks like we have the latest trust me.  
Them: 16.  
Me: Yeah. Anything else?  
Them: Do you have any question? Like I did have the patent that I was named inventor that I literally designed and wrote the code for. So I don't know. If you've seen that or if you're interested. It is. Working with data. In a memory agnostic way.  
Me: All right. It's. I assume it's mentioned on your.  
Them: It is mentioned in there in the patent number was it should be mentioned in there. It's from Fannie Mae, so it'll be in the Fannie Mae section. And honestly, I don't know which. I don't know which version of resume. It's one of those things you constantly look at and evaluate and you don't feel like things are clear based on feedback or anything.  
Me: Yeah, yeah. No, it's there. Yeah. Top line there. Yeah. Okay, that's cool.  
Them: Do you need anything from me. For the next steps? Anything like that.  
Me: Not that I can think of at the moment. And is it Sarah worked with so far or who is it that you've been in touch with? Maybe.  
Them: Hold on.  
Me: It's. But. But we have. We have ways to get a hold of you.  
Them: I think Sarah scheduled this.  
Me: So. Yeah.  
Them: But. Yes, Sarah, it is there. Everything's.  
Me: So she's good. And, you know, if we need anything else, we'll. We'll let you know.  
Them: Parker. Parker too. It was also Parker. Klaus.  
Me: Okay. That's the agency. Probably.  
Them: Yeah, yeah. Yeah, that is the agency.  
Me: Yeah.  
Them: Right. Okay.  
Me: Yeah. All right. Cool. Yeah. Thanks for your time. Appreciate you. Carving.  
Them: Yeah.  
Me: Yeah.  
Them: Thank you. And hit me up with any questions or anything you need.  
Me: For sure.  
Them: Thank you.  
Me: Thank you so much. Bye-bye.  
Them: Bye. 