### Notes ###
- Does have healthcare experiences (Philips Respironics)
- Monolith breakup experience (SAE International)
	- Went from Oracle to MongoDB, indexed into Elasticsearch
	- Naturally mentions strangler pattern etc. 
- Very good experience with modern distributed architectures, well versed in microservices, APIs, REST etc.
- Very experienced with Mongo
- Well versed in DB terms (CAP theorem)
- Great communicator, effective to the point
- AI / LLM assisted development is on par or better than what we expect at this point
- Will definitely move Chas on to the full interview loop.

### Granola Transcript ###
 
Them: Just briefly, I looked it up on Google. I'd be lying if I told you that I kind of knew about it off the bat. But yeah, a little bit. Not too, too much.  
Me: Yeah, okay great well so I'll just take a couple of minutes kind of explaining what the company does and what kind of the context of the role and then we'll flip it over to you and talk about your background and experiences. And then if you have any questions from me at the end we'll make some time for that. Too.  
Them: Sure.  
Me: Yeah okay so yeah my name is Martin like I said I run the teams that are responsible for the exchange which is the core course system really at GHX so so what do we do so we build systems for supply chain in healthcare and so typically when a hospital or a clinic. Buy anything from band-aids to artificial knee joints or whatnot they don't go directly to the manufacturer they they they go through an exchange like like ours and we're the biggest one we have like 90% of the market in the US. And sort of the core the core so in a nutshell we basically. Translate map and then route documents that have to do with the with the purchase process so starting with a purchase order and then you know which and then in order confirmation that goes back to the provider and then kind of back and forth through the whole purchasing process. Typically so typically the buyer and seller. Or provider and supplier as we say don't speak the same language the hospital might send orders in EDI format and then the provider might expect you know XML or something right and then in between more and even more so they might use these various standard document formats in slightly different ways and so there has to be mappings and translations and between you know one field to another or yeah there's just if you if you let your imagination run wild you get pretty close to all the kind of corner cases that we have to cover. And then so then of course we also build. Systems around this sort of core document flow ranging from internal tooling to configure and set up new customers and that whole bit external extranet functionality to the either buyers or sellers to understand where their orders are. And you know what basically any insight into the whole process and then of course like analytics and insights like data insights on top of all this also. So that's the company was. Founded by a number of players in the healthcare industry that you know some 20 years ago or something that kind of all realized that they were all trying to solve this same problem independently and made sense for to create a company basically that does this for the whole industry so that's kind of that's the background and that's that's kind of what we do. Any questions on that?  
Them: A lot of questions, but I'll save them here.  
Me: Okay sounds good okay so we are so. We my part the organization we're organized in 12 teams right now that own different parts of this whole architecture this is kind of a recent evolution so I've only been I've been with the company for five months or so and we're very much in kind of a transformation from sort of a large monolithic team that worked on a monolithic. Code base not all of it is in there but a good chunk of the system and now we are working on breaking that apart. Part of this is that we we have a gap between what I would say the devops slash dba type function that kind of. Gives the product engineering teams I'm just gonna call it a connection string to work against right and then can they then so between that and the actual software engineers we have a bit of a gap in terms of like. What accident looks like in the world of data modeling and engineering product selection you know archive strategies anything that has to do with data basically okay. So that's what this this role is about okay so with that said maybe you can tell me about yourself a bit what what your background is your engineering experiences so far and whatnot.  
Them: Okay. Sure. Yeah. So I have some experience in healthcare domain. I'll start there, I guess. So I was an engineer for Philips. And was part of basically that a SaaS platform that would take incoming data from medical devices and then kind of parse it, process it and display charts usage charts for clinicians, doctors, healthcare professionals.  
Me: What company.  
Them: And then they would fill up restaurantics.  
Me: So this. For okay yeah.  
Them: Phillips. Yeah. And so the clinicians would basically take that, print it out. Submit a claim to Medicare or what else insurance companies to kind of claim some of the. For the device because they sold them to the customer.  
Me: Yeah.  
Them: So it was, we had millions and millions of EDF data coming streaming every three hours from Qualcomm because all these devices had a Qualcomm chip on them. And so I was kind of in the middle ground of that data, incoming data, streaming it, processing it, storing it in our NoSQL database. We use Mongo. And then basically APIs to pull all this data based on patient and based on. A lot of things, but permissions, you know, clinicians have certain permissions doctors have higher permission and stuff like that. So that was that at SAE, I've been kind of an architect principal engineer. So. The team that I was on, we basically took a monolith app that had been maintained, you know, develop. Redesigned, re-architected several times tweaked for about 30 years. So we took that kind of broke it down into microservice pattern. And so it was on-prem before migrated to cloud. So I was kind of bought in the very first phase of that whole migration process. So yeah, just, I mean, I guess that would be the. Most challenging part of my job is how do you kind of take this monolith and then think of it in like a more decoupled microservice environment. You know, data boundaries and kind of which data store to use based on the challenge at hand, so something like that.  
Me: Yeah.  
Them: Or some of the some of the challenges and even. Deciding, okay, should it be an event driven saga pattern or should it be an eventual consistency based scheme? So all of that kind of went into the thinking process. And I think we have about 50 odd microservices at this point. Some of them are multi-tenant. In the sense that SA supports three sub orgs. And so for documents or for ballots and like there's a few services that serve a multi-tenant layer and all tenants kind of use the same service, but, you know, but most of our services are purely for PRI, which is one of the subdomains under SAE. So that's what I've been doing my day to day involves a lot of code reviews. And we constantly kind of expose new APIs, migrate APIs, v2, v3, v4. So kind of sunsetting some of them kind of analyzing usage for our legacy APIs and things like that, things of that nature. So we provision audits for aerospace defense, metacrit platform users. So there's several companies that kind of use SAEs, APIs to have their own internal process for a lot of use cases. So I would say in context of GHX, I guess the scale of use is lower for to what I do. But the complexity of business rules and, you know, because it's, it involves aerospace and major engineering firms. So you know how those engineering processes can get super complicated. So there's a lot of business complexity. Scale 75,000 users, I think on a given day. So it's not, not crazy. Um, so yeah, so those are some of the challenges.  
Me: It's probably not the same scale in terms of I'm just gonna say like distinct. Rows or data points as from like you're coming from an IoT type situation right but yeah so 75,000 users but we are pro we are processing about 190 million document events per day.  
Them: Right.  
Me: So so that is you know there is some data volume there for sure yeah.  
Them: Wow.  
Me: And okay talk to me more about this so I'm really interested in the the data piece there you mentioned you know choosing the I forget what you said but choosing the right data product for the scenario and tell me about some of the I don't know pick some interesting challenge there and tell me about it.  
Them: Sure. So, so all our users, there's, there's some very not so tech savvy users, hard hat engineers who use it on the field. So for them, right. As soon as they click on something, they want feedback and they want it to be accurate. Strictly asset properties. When you come from a relational world, so the backend previously was just purely using oracle. About 300 odd tables. So now when we broke it down into mongo, you know. And we wanted searching to be able to search across. Data sets to be our kind of value prop for the new app. So we decided to put everything in mongo and it automatically gets indexed into elastic. So when you have data in elastic, everything is a term search, it's, it's there. So that enables a lot of, you know, functionality. But the challenge with that is there is a lag when you write data to a data store and that goes into elastic, right? So. So we kind of went with an eventual consistency pattern for, for some of our workflows. Soon enough, as soon as we roll into production, day two, day three, you know, we get feedback saying, you know, it takes a few seconds or my data is, I don't see it on the screen. Because the time it takes for a post endpoint to kind of write something. And then for the get to reflect the data change from elastic, there is, you know, some lag.  
Me: Yeah.  
Them: So in those scenarios, you kind of reverted back to oracle for some of the data. In extreme cases, we basically have. Two. This is in java world, right? So we'll have to threads basically seek data from oracle and elastic, compare it. So we've done that in some cases. And in some other cases, we basically make the right persistent in mongo. So it doesn't have to check with other nodes. It'll basically just write to the primary. Sometimes it could take, you know, a few ms longer, but at least, you know, it's much faster than acknowledging right across all primary and secondary nodes and then writing to elastic. So that kind of sped up things a little bit. But still worst case is you'd see, you know, two second differential between writing and getting from elastic. So that I would say. We chose dimensional consistency pattern for, for expanded functionality, but that kind of came to bite us in the back a little bit and we had to kind of pivot and make some changes there. So there's still, we still make some time, you know, ongoing changes, but there are few and far between at this point, I'd say.  
Me: Okay. Yeah so okay so it sounded like originally you went from the sort of system you were replacing or rearchitecting was using an oracle database is that right?  
Them: Correct. Yep.  
Me: How did you pick mongo as the as the new as the new data store.  
Them: So. I wasn't there for the, for that process when the stack was picked. I was kind of bought in after. And now, you know, after I kind of realized in the beginning I had concerns, right? Because we're going from purely rational, you know, strictly acid to something that's, that's more partition tolerant and it's always available. And it has its benefits. And it also kind of. This is when I kind of started getting into it and looking at code or writing code and looking at request merge requests and stuff. You can set. Your right concern and that enables, you know, so in a cap theorem, you would have. Consistency, availability partition tolerance. So you can kind of go between CP and AP based on, you know, what based on code, which is cool. I'm sure there's other stacks that allow it, but I think mongo had. Good support, good documentation and even like integration with elastic was pretty seamless. So they have their own kind of ETL tools that in the background basically read the operational log and just automatically write stuff to elastic. So I think for those reasons, they kind of went with mongo and I don't think they. I think they went with a self managed version. So it's kind of cheap on usage.  
Me: Okay. Is it working well still so we're just in the process of atlas migration so for reasons but yeah so how you're happy with.  
Them: So. Okay.  
Me: Self hosted manga.  
Them: Yeah, yeah. And one other thing we've been doing is like, like you said archiving. So we have some of the documents, you know, older than. When we migrated stuff from Oracle. There were some which were like 20, 30 years old, which are no longer relevant. Those standards are obsolete. So we have TTL specifically on those documents so they automatically move to an archive table. And then from that they go to like, you know, hard disk. They basically get pulled out from the drive. So that's also kind of cool to have like a TTL and then just forget about it. You know.  
Me: Okay. Yeah. So this is in mongo you're doing this.  
Them: Yes.  
Me: You but do you so what do you what happens when you archive something. This.  
Them: So it moves to a different collection. So there's an archive collection and we basically don't reference that collection at all in code. So it's basically just gone from.  
Me: Okay. Okay. Is there a way to do you ever have a need to restore things or no.  
Them: We haven't had it, a need to restore it. But, you know, so let's say you have a collection called users, right? And there's some users that have no longer in the system. You create another collection called archive users. So it basically has the same model as users. So if you wanted to re-import some of them based on some field like created date or log off date or whatever last login date or something like that, you could kind of write a query quick query and say, hey, pull all these users, put them back in the user's collection if the, you know, so fairly.  
Me: Okay. But. Your data is small enough that it still fits in mongo you don't have to move it to some other storage.  
Them: I think at Philips, they had a scheme. I can't quite remember. That would basically move it to like a different database, not just. If you wanted to kind of take it further, you could move to a different database and then move that database, migrate that. Because in the mongo world, all these are basically just files on the server end of the day. So if you go to the primary node and you say, hey, give me everything in this database, it'll basically give you like a, you know, petabyte file and you can kind of take it and, you know, handle it as a file.  
Me: Yeah. Yeah. How so. Who. Would who would be who's managing these databases from like I don't know performance and tuning perspective is that owned by you and your team the teams you work with or how does it work.  
Them: So ops, they have some kind of a dashboard and then they keep a tab on, you know, usage like percentage usage and number of requests and they maintain all the accounts, all the service accounts. So we've had instances where a big data dump comes in and some processes churn up like the consumer process go up on some consumer services and, you know, they'll be like, hey, this, you know, all of a sudden we have like. 100 requests a second from, from this specific service. So, you know, We've done that before. It's usually it doesn't happen in production as much as in test. You know, if there's somebody does a massive update. And that's another challenge with mongo is. And microservices in general is so, you know, now you have denormalized data across several collections. Right? And, you know, if some user got forbid changes their name or something, now you have to go touch every collection and change all the audit trail, you know, updated by created by check the name, update the name. So stuff like that. So there's a lot of instances where. You'd get a, you know, bulk update like that.  
Me: Yeah.  
Them: We tried to avoid those as much as we can, but you know, there's always some minor attribute change and that causes.  
Me: With with sort of concerns like that in mind do you feel like it is it there was it was it or is it the right choice to just go wholesale into mongo because some of those things you're talking about is very easy in a relational database right.  
Them: It. Right, right. So now, yeah, now we have, I mean, we still use oracle and some of the services we have postgres, we use postgres to we have redis caching in some spots. So for the most part, we stick to mongo, but we do have other databases. So if I were to create, spawn a new service today for some, for some functionality, I would, I would, you know, pick and choose between any one of these.  
Me: Okay.  
Them: And we, we had a very strict like time to market requirements for when we migrated the app. So we basically just. Mongo was the first choice. You know, and, and then we kind of circled back and did 5050 or.  
Me: All. Right excellent so you mentioned data and streaming also on your on your resume so can you talk a bit about that experiences there.  
Them: Yeah, so we, so when we rolled out this app, we basically. Thought of it from a, from a customer standpoint, from end user standpoint. So we have several different types of end users, auditors, suppliers, subscribers, staff and three or four others. So we basically kind of divided these apps into for, for users. So we'll have, you know, five different apps each for specific user. They all use the same services in the background. So that way we can strangle functionality and migrate a certain set of users to the new app. So, so when we did that, now it still references the data, the same data in the back end, right? So, so if some type of user is updating data in the, in the legacy app and in this new user has to basically read the same data. So we'll have to. Snapshot it, migrate it as, as quick as we can. So for those, you know, we, we use streaming. So for one process, we use Kafka because whenever somebody. So there is a process called audit and it has basically, it's think of it like a massive. File or a JSON file. And there's 75 different attributes. Coming from different tables in the, in the, in the legacy world. So any time anybody touches some little attribute in one of these tables, there is a very high chance that. It's going to trigger some, some updates in other tables. And because the user is actively working on an audit. So we'll give it like 10 minutes to basically all that. Data to come in. So that's where we use Kafka. So whenever we get the first event, we'll wait like 10 minutes and kind of compile, you know, the whole entire audit before we send it to the backend system. So. That is one place where a user can wait 10 minutes because nobody's accessing the same audit on the other system for all the other changes. They have to be fast. So we kind of use rabbit for those. And the way we do that is we have triggers on, on Oracle. As soon as that trigger fires, it throws an event on rabbit.  
Me: Okay.  
Them: And there's a service that listening to another table as soon as that trigger fires. It pulls it, puts a record on a certain table. There's a service that's listening on this table. It'll take that event. It'll throw it on rabbit and then, you know, whoever is listening on that topic will consume it. So those happen within 300 to 500 ms. That RSLA is one second, but most of them happen, you know, below 300 for the most part.  
Me: You mentioned quite a few microservices I think you said 50 or something is that how most of them talk to each other through like async messaging. Or.  
Them: Most of them through async, if it's like if you kind of go with the saga pattern, we use async because there is no, because so we asked this question, is the user waiting on the screen for this process to finish? If that answer is yes, we'll do a synchronous call if it's no, then we'll do async. And all our apis go through the gateway and the gateway is basically.  
Me: Okay.  
Them: A hard five second timeout. So if an API can return stuff within five seconds, it throws a 500, which is a bad ux, you know, experience. So, so yeah, if it's something we can do synchronously, something you can do fast, then, you know, it's an API. If the user is waiting, it's an API. If it's not, it's all event driven in the back end.  
Me: And that is all on top of rabbit is that is that correct?  
Them: Yeah, that's all on top of rabbit. Now for this audit process, it's a separate screen. Only some set of users use it. So that's, that's all Kafka.  
Me: Okay. All right and how do you how so in this rabbit facilitated communication how do you deal with the edge cases like retries and redrives and yeah dead lettering and all that.  
Them: So yeah, we have dead letter queues on everything and we have alerts on most of the dead letter queues. Not all. And anytime there is more than one message will get an alert and it's kind of annoying because it spams your inbox and some of them have a team. Hook. So it's some the ones which are critical have a team. So as soon as we see something, we'll try to reprocess it. If it's because of some special character, some, you know, unique edge case like that will kind of change data in the back end.  
Me: Okay.  
Them: Um, so.  
Me: Okay. All right.  
Them: Yeah.  
Me: Okay. Yeah so lastly what so let me maybe it's on your resume I was going to ask like which so you've mentioned. Oracle. Mongo Kafka rabbit postgres what what managed data stores do you have experience with I think you mentioned dynamo at some point maybe.  
Them: So I have used dynamo in the past. Very little in the AWS realm, just as a proof of concept. We've migrate everything to RDS from on-prem article. So that's something I have a little bit of experience. I've used Cassandra and things like that just played around with it in the past. But I would say mostly. I've worked mostly in enterprises and I feel like articles kind of the go to name, at least, you know, for legacy applications. So a lot of article experience.  
Me: And where what would you say is your core. Technical expertise like what are the things that. If there's a discussion or debate about this. Everyone comes running to you or if there's a meeting you know it's kind of a given that you know you need to be involved because this topic is at hand like what are those things?  
Them: API design new API or a new service. Architecting kind of the data model for it. Coming up with like a service boundary. From my past experience, I've gotten really good at like looking at usage end user perspective. Okay, so how is the user using this data? How does this mutate? Does this affect something else existing service or existing data? How many tables is it touching in the legacy world? Like things like that to kind of come up with a good, good data model. If you come up with a good data model, then it's extremely easy to come up with good APIs. That's kind of my motto.  
Me: Yeah. I agree with that okay all right I know we're a little bit over here so I have I have a little bit more time so if you have any questions for me. Yeah go for it.  
Them: Sure, just kind of if you could overview of like what stack and, you know, you mentioned kind of the middle layer between provider and supplier or requester and provider. Like how does that apis.  
Me: Yeah. Yeah so okay so the stack is it's mostly mostly java throughout typescripts on the front end some of the front ends are.  
Them: Are?  
Me: A bit are outdated in their angular apps basically we're trying to get away from that data is so we have a lot of mongo mango and elastic and some postgres so sounds a bit similar but I think part part of.  
Them: Yeah. Wow.  
Me: This role is to figure out because whether we are using mongo appropriately I definitely think that there's some areas where it's not the right. Tool for the it's not the right product basically and and figuring that out and kind of untangling that is is is part of the challenge.  
Them: Okay.  
Me: So let's see what am I missing we're in AWS and a lot of a lot of our system currently runs on kind of a lift and shift architecture so it's a lot easier to instances.  
Them: Okay.  
Me: Just you know lifted from a data center at some point that also getting addressed kind of incrementally either either moving to containers or even better to fully manage products either compute or data depending on depending on the situation.  
Them: Gotcha. Okay.  
Me: We stream data into snowflake for like an analytics for analytics type workloads that that is not owned by my team it's a different team.  
Them: Okay. Okay.  
Me: Yeah, I think that's it. Yeah oh yeah actually so what in the experience with. AI assisted development agentic tooling.  
Them: Oh. Yeah.  
Me: Stuff.  
Them: So I mean last, I would say last six months of my life I've been extremely, I would say the best engineering, you know time, I would say in my career. Just I use cloud heavily and I've come up with. Like just coming up with how do how do you make your life better as an engineer. So a lot of. We I'm part of another team. 5050 at this point. So we're looking at a way to automate feature migration from like from legacy apps into the new app. So there is a mining process PRD generation and then that PRD will go for UI development and backend development. And then there's a human in the loop review process before PRD generation open questions gets resolved and stuff like that. Basically the output of that whole process would be UI code and backend code and then you run it. It should work and it'll take take a screen from the legacy app. And migrate it entirely into the into the microservices world. If there is no service, it'll kind of go off and create another PRD for a service creation and come up with, you know, what it thinks is a good data model and so on.  
Me: Okay. That's awesome yeah so we're we are we're we're leaning in heavily so we are basically more or less unrestricted access to all like everyone has a full anthropic unlimited license essentially we're trying to figure out how we're gonna what we're gonna use for orchestration we have actually so we have a team that's kind of dedicated to setting the patterns here or helping everyone else out given that the you know github is our code repo copilot is is a great orchestrator so we're thinking some combination of the two basically but yeah so we're I'm it's one of the most exciting things for me is like for now at least it's basically no no caps on anything the company just wants us to like really you know leverage these tools so that.  
Them: Yeah. Okay. Yeah, it's awesome. I mean every other week I create a new app that kind of, you know, makes engineers life easier. Like I have like several, I'm creating apps faster than I can use them. Let's put it this way and it's it's fun. So.  
Me: Okay. Okay. All right so how okay so you read the you read the the job description I talked a bit about it it's so again the the impetus for this role is very sort of data heavy but at the same time we I like I like teams and colleagues that are multifaceted and wear a lot of hats and you know maybe and it sounds like you have a full definitely a full stack experience like how how do you feel about how would you feel about coming into this role and being sort of at least for a good while the number one focus is data in that piece and working across multiple teams and kind of knowing what good looks like and helping them to a better place in in terms of how they store data how they read data how they write data how they archive data how they model data and all that. Does that how does that feel to you?  
Them: Yeah, I mean that's kind of my day job. I work across teams established standards and align high level architecture improvement on a from a data and consistency perspective. So I'd be very excited to come into the role. I do enjoy getting my hands dirty proof of concept type of stuff. So and I feel like that goes a long way in kind of coming up with an idea. So I, I mean, I do UI front end angular react a little bit, but that's not my kind of strong suit. I'll, you know, I know enough to be dangerous. I guess.  
Me: Okay.  
Them: So yeah, I'd be very willing and excited to for the role. Yes.  
Me: Sounds good. All right excellent well thank you for your time. And we should be in touch here shortly good rest of the day okay.  
Them: Good. Thank you. It was a pleasure. Thank you too. Bye bye. 
