---
date: 2026-03-05
tags:
  - Hiring
  - Recruiting
  - Engineering
  - meeting
content_type: meeting_note
participants:
  - Marten Engblom
  - [[Ramesh_Donnipadu]]
  - [[Daniel_Milburn]]
  - Michael Mitchell
  - Sarah Ridgway
  - Sneha Das
  - Recruiting Team
meeting_type: staff_meeting
project: Recruiting
destination_category: 60-69 Archive
kb_insights: true
---
Things I want to bring up:
- Justin Hancock - Principal
- All interviews should have 2 interviewers, including the 4th additional interview for Engineering Manager and Staff/Principal Engineer
	- What about HM screen - should we have non-managers shadow as a mentoring opportunities?
- Access to all candidates for all Exchange leads (Marten, Mike, Daniel, Ramesh)

Notes:
- TA Screening questions
	- I and Mike and Daniel need to review (Sarah sent them over) and give feedback / suggest changes
- Hiring Schedule
	- We need to update anticipated start dates - this is our way of signaling relative priority of the open roles
- Went through hiring stats
- Still missing some job descriptions
	- I need to get the Principal Engineer (Data Architecture & Engineering) to TA
	- We (Exchange Leadership) need to give TA the one-stop-shop Confluence page for Exchange we have promised (JDs, Interview types + pool of interviewers)
- Role reviews
	- SEIII for IPA team - we are short on the compensation (automation + UI engineering is a somewhat specialized combo) - Need to discuss deeper with Ramesh, Sneha is going to start a thread; do we need to raise combo or lower requirements, e.g. loosen the Python experience requirement?
	- Sr. Engineer for Prashanth's team - offer in progress
	- Engineering Manager for ICS team - Ramesh wants player coach, .Net stack background, and located in Hyderabad. Need to check with Ramesh if the local Hyderabad requirement is based on bad experiences with relocation, or if we can be OK with relocation (as long as they can move fairly shortly)
	- Various IC roles reviewed by Sarah - still a some conversation around reason for rejection etc.
	- 2 EM candidates rejected due to outdated Java experience - I, Mike and Daniel will review for potential calibration 
	- Staff Engineer - The funnel is definitely thinner, people are screened out earlier. 
- Interviewer availability
	- Some people (Paul Bobbit aka PBob) says he can only interview 7-noon etc. 
		- I need to message the org and emphasize the importance of availability for interviews, etc.
	- I need to work on adding interviewers to the pools. Expand to Curtis' broader org + the Product org