- IPA - LLM based document understanding project
	- Concern from Ramesh around the IPA team taking on building a rules engine as part of the document understanding project:
		- My feedback:
			- In principle, that is probably the right long term direction:  
				- Generic document understanding and extraction as a platform capability (i.e. what the IPA team is currently working on)
				- Generic rules engine (or something like it) - when this is built, and by which team, is TBD.
			- Now, the above gets a bit complicated by the fact that the current UIPath solution as a bunch of the "rules engine" functionality intertwined, as you have pointed out many times. How to approach this should be a fun architecture discussion - I hope Guru and you can drive this with the team?
	- More feedback from me: we have to find a way to work on this project incrementally. Ramesh keeps referring to "delivering in Q4"... my perspective is that we need to start delivering soon (in 1-2 months) and iterate.
- ICS DR KR?
	- Need to check with Curtis on the scope of the KR
- Exchange Manages Services Portal
	- Rammi has asked Ramesh for a commitment to deliver the new EMS portal in Q1 2027
		- Feedback from me: 
			- this is the perfect project for an incremental delivery. We should have a bare-bones dashboard up in production very soon with perhaps only one of the data points they're asking for, and then it right from there incrementally delivering more and more of their desired data points.
			- we need to avoid committing to large deliverables that are several quarters away. It shouldn't be that difficult of a conversation if we have the same time or committing to end showcasing starting incremental delivery almost immediately.