### Granola Transcript ###
 
Them: Let me We are on a couple of calls, so probably know who I am. I'm Var George Belletta's capital, part of the portfolio optimization team, typical operating partner in other forms. We have non-descript titles here. Called tech exec. I'm a prior CTO CPU. In the valley for forever. I'm in California. Used to work at Oracle long time back. Then I had a couple of similar to your platform, e to open was one of the companies that I spent quite some time early part of my career. Then several other startups. And then with very tasks for last seven years in this role. Typically partner with management team, we more like thought partners with CTOs, CPU, CEO, who are the management team is. In really trying to bring our operator experience or prior operator experience to help accelerate the journey within our whole period. Right. So that's idea. I was part of the diligence team. We did the diligence before acquisition. And I think my objective today is to really help understand a your interaction with kick drum, how things are going. We have completed four out of 11 weeks. And then where should we be focusing them more sharply? What are the feedbacks from the last four weeks? We should be giving them. That's one. Second, we want to understand, you know, personally connect with you, understand your work a little bit more. And to really understand. You know, I know you're new, relatively new. What are your observations? What, you know, where do you have headwinds versus tailwind in your job, in your role? You know, what are the big things that you believe some things need to change, whether it's distant authority, whether it's collaboration, whether it's architecture, whatever it may be, right, what they are. So I'm more cognizant of it so that I can help, you know, unblock some of those areas or streamline some of the ideas for the betterment of your role. But I think the pattern may be similar, right? I'm talking to many people, so I may observe similar patterns in other places. And then last is to really establish the relationships where I can be more helpful in the future if, you know, you got somebody on the very side that maybe. A helpful as we navigate this journey for the next couple of years.  
Me: Yeah.  
Them: So this is three objectives I had in mind.  
Me: Okay that's great. Yeah, so I assume. Well do you want me to I guess I can do a quick intro myself.  
Them: Yeah, that would be awesome.  
Me: Yeah yeah so yeah like you said I'm fairly new.  
Them: Yeah.  
Me: Or you know I'm six months now I think I started in December. Let's see if I actually I got connected with with Curtis through prior professional connections and things like that and kind of we're talking to him really for about six months before I started and I've sort of gone I've gone through similar transitions before sort of. Modernization transitions I would say a couple of times so it seemed like an interesting challenge so yeah I've been here six months before this I was for a year and a half I was at a medical device company that was my first. Individual contributor role for 20 years maybe or 15 20 years before that so I spent a year and a half as a as a principal architect that company called nebro it was acquired by globus medical while I was there. Before that it was at Spotify for four years and ran a few teams where we calculated royalties. And before that it was an e-commerce number of times and been in a gaming startup also so I've done a few different things. So yeah six months here and as you probably know we've gone through a bit of. I'm just gonna call it a reorg it's not a complete reorg but definitely a ship right in. We're in the midst of shifting from a heavy contractor load to FTEs. And have also if you go back six months. The automation pod or the exchange pod that that I'm in charge of now it was basically one reactor three managers. And I don't know 80 or 100 engineers all together. Right so now we're we're moving towards a much more modern organization so there's four directors and 12 managers and it's very much structure like you would see in any fan company or you know smaller teams with hands-on. Player coach managers so and and that's been structured very much around the kind of target architecture we're trying to carve things up into so kind of a reverse conway maneuver. So yeah I think that's the that's the super high level we're sort of. Again I don't know how much the inside you have on the in the day to day but we're sort of have I guess we're kind of head count wise we're halfway through that hiring process we started with about maybe 45 roles or something and. We're I think we have 20 or something left to fill.  
Them: This is the happiest mind transition.  
Me: Yeah exactly yeah yeah so we have maybe 20 or so left to fill mostly in India.  
Them: Right?  
Me: And mostly so we focus up front we focus more on the managers and the very senior IC so we've come a fairly long way actually on that hiring path. So.  
Them: Are you finding good quality people in India?  
Me: Yeah the ones we've well okay so we're holding the bar pretty high I feel like so the ones we have actually offered and hired we're happy with so far I haven't heard any any mishires heard of any miss hire so far but at the same time it's slower than we want it to be we it's it's a challenging market and you know we get constant feedback that our compensation is not right and things like that so I'm sure you've heard this from other places too and it's a challenging Hydra bot is very taut not weather wise but it's hot it's hard so we have a lot of competition so I think that's why it's a bit slower than that's one reason at least why it's a bit slower but yeah we're we're getting through it I don't. It's not a red flag just yet at least we're making progress but it's lower than we want to I guess that's how I would say.  
Them: How many of the AT are in the US versus India?  
Me: So the target org if I remember.  
Them: Engineer wise.  
Me: 64 20 64 36 split if I remember right now something like that I have it in some spreadsheet but it's around there we're not quite at. What was it that we.  
Them: Yeah, just, just get a board.  
Me: Yeah yeah so it's a it's a bit heavier in India but yeah that's that's.  
Them: And where you believe you are in the six months in is the system ecosystem in a way that you could get into the into fully absorbing the platform. Tech architecture and things like that? Or is it still. Kind of challenging?  
Me: So I wouldn't say it's it's not challenging in the sense that like I have there's a good amount of people that's been here for a while and one of my directors has 17 years here so it's been through. It all basically so he can basically answer any and all questions I have but it's just it I haven't gone I can't say that I know everything by far right now it's just you know not enough time for that but I don't have a I don't have a challenge in the sense that if if I need to dig into some area there's always somebody that I can go to or there's enough documentation or material so it's not it's not really problematic in that sense. So yeah so that's good. Yeah. Any other questions on just the general lay of the land or the background.  
Them: So in terms of, in terms of, you know, your onboarding process in the last six months, and did you restructure your team as well or is it when you say we are going through the restructuring process, it's just more. The broader question.  
Me: Yeah no that's what I did so the so when I started there was this there was kind of a straw man there was an idea that that Curtis and Daniel had put together but it was still it was missing this concept of every individual team having a dedicated manager was not that was not part of it so that's that's that was one of the first changes that I made I really wanted it to work like that.  
Them: Here.  
Me: I'm very used to again small agile teams dedicated engineering manager paired ideally paired with a product owner that's you know kind of a two in a box right that is still a bit work in progress and we don't I don't think my my product peer organization they they're gonna they don't have there's not a one to one there EM to to po but they're staffing up a bit so I think it's gonna get a lot better. But yeah so and then and then exactly what teams we were putting in place and their area of ownership was also something that I spent I would say the first two months maybe ironing out understanding the systems and figuring out. What teams we needed in what place and exactly how to carve out their their area of responsibility so that's kind of it is very much my work the way I want it so that's that's the good news. Yeah.  
Them: With respect. So in what is the typical team size at this point, one team is how big?  
Me: So. They're between maybe it's between four and nine or something like that.  
Them: Engineers.  
Me: Yeah exactly yeah. Maybe there's no team with nine I can. I can I can if you want to I can follow up with the sort of.  
Them: Just a high level. So I think one thing to think about, Mark, is that everything is being appended with AI, right? So I had actually sent.  
Me: Yeah.  
Them: Something to CJ and if you have u, I think you probably have not utilized it yet. So the AWS runs something called. It's like a one day workshop. Where they actually would come in. They will, it's like a one day hackathon kind of style where they'll put product engineering leaders together to, they call it mobilizing the mob. So just, it's like the PI planning kind of collapsed into a couple of hours and then people using agents to code in the same day. So that everything gets built out by end of the day. Right. And so they have a way, they have a different way of thinking. And we have put a couple of teams into it at Verita. So portfolio companies, at least my companies I'm involved in. So I think one thing to think about is that. In the new world of AI, how should some of these org structure and constructs. How would AI change some of the structures for efficiency? Right. So I'm beginning to see this pattern that team sizes are collapsing. So I did some transformation in one of the companies where there was a lot of. You know, non fungible resources and people are very siloed and everything is bottlenecked by members in some team, right? Because a needs B needs C, you know, D needs C. And they're just waiting because it's hard ownership.  
Me: Yeah. Yeah.  
Them: And different modules and everybody has to wait for that data source to make one change or to change and, you know, everything get paid. Right. So we. Move that team into more of. Seal team style. So for visual parlance, we said it's a sick member team for five to six member team. And they're like a navy seal team. They got fungibility. Everything is open source in generally. If you want something from team a, go ahead and make the change in team A's code. And then send them a pull request, right? You fork, you do send the pull request and they will accept it. Or reject it or they will take that pull request and work on it. So it just started yielding some result. Now we are actually thinking now that that has taken some positive impact. Now with all this AI. You don't need three six member team. Now agents are doing more work. So we probably can cut that into a three member team or something like that. Right. So I know it's changing rapidly. It may be, you know interesting to take a look at those kind of process to see how should we be, you know what is the opportunity to further optimize these. Constructs, right? I don't know what is the right answer, wrong answer, right? There's not no right or wrong answer.  
Me: Yeah.  
Them: What works with each team is different. But you know, you're talking about agility. You may have an opportunity to further improve agility. By sizing the theme and process different, you know, to a more AI native.  
Me: Yeah for sure so I just looked while you were talking so the the largest team size has six engineers the reason I'm saying nine in some cases is we have some test automation engineers like you that that sort of they report into one of the engineering managers so then that team technically becomes nine but it's no it's no more than six software engineers on each team so that's just fyi yeah.  
Them: And then one team, one manager or two team one manager?  
Me: One team one manager.  
Them: Okay. And the manager is an IC first IC.  
Me: Yeah yeah oh yeah yeah definitely very like needs to technical needs to spend at least half maybe more of their time on technical things so that's the idea yeah.  
Them: Or is it more fun? Yeah. So that's one of the big shift I'm seeing in the valley. Most of the companies in the valley, they all have gone into this icy first model. Where, you know, the manager's traditional managers were more spending a lot of people time, you know, mentoring. Reviews and all that stuff. Now a lot of the companies are saying that we want managers to be an IC first. It's like the lead engineer, the lead. You know, director level that's changes. But the first line managers are I see first. That's a big, that's a bigger shift in the valley that I'm seeing.  
Me: Yeah. No that's for sure and we've we made some really good hires we have a couple of new managers in the states that are. Yeah they're definitely coming in with a new mindset in this so yeah I'm really pleased with that school yeah yeah.  
Them: Okay, awesome. Awesome. So in terms of the, maybe we can talk about your, you know, since you have probably the freshest perspective over the last six months. You know, your span of responsibilities, the challenges that you are still. Experiencing where, you know, how. What some of the transformation you think will be helpful for the organization, whether it's architecture, whether it's process, whether it's, you know, whatever it may be. And then we can focus on maybe, you know, then we can focus on kick drum specifically. How do we focus on.  
Me: Sure. Yeah. Yeah so our by far biggest challenge is and I'm sure you've heard people talk about the monolith right so the exchange. Not all of it but most of it is tied up in in monolithic code base and it's not really for me it's not really the code base that's the problem it's everything that comes with it we're basically until these team changes the team operated as a monolithic team we're deploying this as you know as. One large deployment and it's very much a monolithic deployment footprint like infrastructure wise so that's the bigger problem I don't really care whether the code sits in one repo or whatever that's not really the main problem the main problem is the people in the processes that go with it right so that's very much I mean that is that is the goal of this team restructuring is to break all that apart so we until and I'm sure you I mean you know this until we do we are incredibly slow we today we deploy this whole thing once a month basically because we spend two to three weeks. Every cycle to go through the tests we fix all the broken UI test because it all has to be done as. One one monolithic package so that is that's. That's the price for me I want these 12 teams to get to autonomous autonomy we're talking about autonomous teams that's the that's the goal they need to be able to even if they sit in the first phase even if they sit on a minimon lift right even if the things that they own is still very coupled and whatnot if they if each team can be in charge of their own destiny if they can deploy on demand if they can own their pipelines they can own their own test suite that's going to be a massive win for us and and the things that you're describing right with tiger teams or seal teams that could come in and you know on some special challenge or whatever that it's it's very difficult when all the teams are tied together to deploy something like that so we just this is. Number one for sure. And then so that's organizationally and I mean it's all tied together I'm just so when so when when you hear people talk about the monolith through the company I think most people think about the code base I think there's a I think but yes it's the code base but it's the it's the organization and it's the processes and it's the deployment footprint that's actually more important at this point. And it's related our data layer is a challenge that is I would what I would hold that is the number two. Challenge that needs to be tackled and we're in the process right like we're we're we're going from self hosted databases to managed services. And we're doing we're breaking some things apart. In the process splitting you know one cluster into three and things like that however. So actually let me pause for just a second how how how familiar are you with our architecture and tech stack and all you I assume.  
Them: Yeah, I'm reasonably familiar. I would probably do know the skeletons, but at least from a diligence perspective, we did a, we're like a 10 hour plus conversation during the acquisition. So I have good visibility from that perspective.  
Me: Dude. Okay. Okay. So you know we are most of our data lives in mongodb okay so I would the way I semi jokingly characterize it is that maybe if let's call it 15 years ago manga was given to us in the shape of a hammer and since then everything has looked like a nail we use mongodb for almost everything whether it's belongs there or not right and and so in many cases where it's not the right tool for the job it's not the right tool given the read patterns or the right patterns or there's many many opportunities probably to to improve things at the data layer and from a cost perspective too to be honest but more importantly it's our it's traditionally it's been the biggest threat to stability I think if you go back and look at medium to major in incidents over the last number of years most if not all are related to the data layer mongo ride mongo toppling over and then we have a noisy neighbor problem because it all sits among cluster and it you know things like that right so that's that that's what I would hold that is number two from a stability perspective that's the number one that's the most important thing to tackle I would still maintain that the team getting to you know this reverse conway maneuver getting to 12 autonomous teams is going to be the biggest unlock from a productivity perspective at least in the short term but stability wise the data layer needs to there's going to be many things that we need a first pass at least at a first pass.  
Them: Yeah.  
Me: At the most egregious issues there so that's kind of. Yeah I can pause for a second there's many more things on the list but I'll pause if you have any questions.  
Them: I mean, this is great. You know, I recognize the monolith. I had a hypothesis that we. Are over relying on mongodb. And we saw, I mean, I think, you know, part of the build spike was probably for the atlas migration. But still we were. Concerned that the mongodb cost is going to spike with more and more. We're putting into mongodb. So I did ask that question earlier. This is something I asked kingdom team. As part of the process to really make recommendations on. The right. Usage of the database technologies to the right problems, right? Categorize it.  
Me: Yeah. Yeah.  
Them: And then obviously the third element on that is that, you know, we also have this notion of moving from monolith to microservices. Or, you know, strangler patterning things. Right? I think one of the critical decision point that a lot of companies will have to make. Which have significant implication is the granularity of the data. Model or their databases, right? Is it. I have 200 microservices? Do I have. 200 totally incredible databases? Is it coarse grain fine grain? Whatever they are.  
Me: Yeah.  
Them: So this is something I asked them to look into.  
Me: Yeah.  
Them: We should probably push them on there as well. It's an opinion. You guys can leverage it if you make sense to you. But this is just another airport you could get from, you know, some experts they can bring in.  
Me: So in.  
Them: So you said.  
Me: The yeah go ahead.  
Them: Go ahead. Sorry.  
Me: I was going to say in this first pass of breaking the monolith we're not touching the data layer unless it's absolutely necessary so when when we're the first step is to get the 12 teams to carve off their piece of the application layer we're going to accept that they are still having shared databases and so on behind the scenes but then once these teams can operate independently they can start basically taking ownership of their own data where it makes sense right but I'm definitely not. I'm very careful about over indexing on the microservices path. I actually have a blog post that I've been working on for a while it's called or your microservices to micro I think the pendulum far over right like it you know like you're saying you don't I don't know you don't need to under databases but anyway so I'm very cognizant of that sort of that. That direction but yeah in the first in the first pass we're not look we're not we're not splitting the data layer is not part of this very p0 first path and part of it is that that it changes way less frequently right then the applications so so in day in day out week in week out typically we don't make schema changes contract changes in the data so it's it's less it's less of a blocker it's less of a coupling issue than what it is in the in the application layer so yeah yeah.  
Them: Yeah. I think one thing to watch out for there since you're talking about, you know, tech topics here. Just drawing from my own experience. One thing to watch out here is that. You know, if you're writing most of a typical software with blocking IO. Then these databases sooner than later going to become a bottleneck, right? Because you got, you know, 100 services trying to write in parallel into your database. One choke point. And there's going to be a lot of weight and blocking. So unless. Your architecture is significantly into a non blocking I/O mode. And with again, as long as it's non blocking, then you have to go to an eventual consistency, which is going to create more challenge. So there's a lot to unpack there to just make sure that these databases are kind of optimized. So sometimes if the solution is not going micro micro databases, it's just. You know, it's not totally coarse grain. It's the Granola te is to be decided, right? So what is the right granularity and what's where you can bring non blocking IO, especially when you talk about the. You know, I often refer. We have a lot of these companies in our portfolio. Where the scale is so big. That it becomes a computer science problem. It's no longer just, okay, let me just write a crud model to put something into the database, put them in a report and show it to the user. And that's an application. Now at that scale, it become a significant computer science problem. And now all these nuances, deeper level stuff become very relevant. How do I blocking I become relevant? How do I run? You know, for example, somebody told me today that I was talking to Greg earlier today just to understand his perspective from an EA enterprise architecture perspective. Neo's telling that exchange. Data import is used to take call to. 24 hours. To get a data imported. On the cdp side. And then now it's maybe two hours. That itself is he is telling challenges with the two hours itself. So that, you know, again challenges there, right? So 24 hours to import a piece of data is probably not acceptable. In this age. For many companies. And then it looks like, again, at least from my perspective, it looks like. We got multiple pipelines. So on exchange. Maybe documents lands and process faster. Because ADI has a certain. SLA need to maintain to sending acknowledgments and things like that. But then the CDP has a different problem. One area that I don't have full visibility is to really see this, the whole force for the tree. To see how. The data flow from. Provided to supplier. And back. Happens and which are the teams in that handoff. That need to deliver that streamlining. Right. And that's something that I asked king drum team if they can put together this macro topology view. To see how the depth flows. Right. And I was asking. Greg also, is there a logical data model? That logically tells us that our entire. You know, topology of data. Doesn't really exist. But you know, people may have views around it. So again, it looks like there are a lot of interesting problem to solve. But, you know, a few things that to keep in mind, at least from my perspective.  
Me: Yeah the data. The data is are in some cases it's our problem it's also our treasure in some ways right like that's our you know yeah you know this it's probably a big part of the acquisition so yeah.  
Them: You talked about two things, right? Monolith and data layer.  
Me: Yeah.  
Them: Are there any other major boulders like that? You. Big items like that you'll put it on the table.  
Me: So so now there are definitely things so what I just talked about I would call it like p0 initiatives there's definitely things on the p1 list and some of it is related to to data so we have so a couple of big areas is so one we have. A we have a homegrown event bus that lives in mongo where else right so that it definitely needs to be replaced with a better with a proper messaging eventing system whether that's built around Kafka or sqs or something else that's I think a little bit TBD but it needs to get out of mongo. And it's not even properly venting today it's basically. The producers right into mongo collection and then the consumers do is select star where it matches me you know every so often it's very homegrown so that's that's one area we have a homegrown identity provider so we called SSO that's a solution that lives in my team also that other applications use for authentication and authorization but it's homegrown it's and it should really be replaced with I mean it was started probably 15 years ago there weren't a lot of off the shelf alternatives today probably do an art serial integration and call it a day but it's it's on the to-do list I would say. Observability we're not super great there either and it's going to become even more important as we kind of move to more actually distributed architecture with eventing and so on you need traceability through the whole system we don't really have that right now.  
Them: Is it more is the observability issue more lack of logging and things like that? Or is it more the instrumentation from outside?  
Me: I think it's a little bit of both I think we do quite a bit of logging actually we have kind of a homegrown system for that too it's called and this is actually one of the bigger pain points in the data layers it's called audit DB it basically records. It records an event for everything we do to document and then we have a custom built application on top of it that provides insight into this data but that's only as it relates to the document flow through the system. We have gaps in other places so we the devops team they are working on. An open source observability path right like they're working on Prometheus and Grafana and that stack. I don't know I'm personally I would love if we could go to data dog route instead but I don't know. Yeah. Okay so actually let me take a step back part of this reorg also and breaking apart the monolith is to the teams are going to own a lot more of their own destiny right they're going to need to own their own observability to a certain extent they're going to need to own their own application near infrastructure they can't rely on the devops team for everything right so I'm thinking about these things in terms of as little as possible friction for the dev teams to own everything under their tent. So yeah for whatever that's worth so observability.  
Them: You know, when they own it? You're also kind of bringing in some sort of enterprise standard. For tooling standard. Yeah.  
Me: So that I mean that then that's what we would get from the devops team from the central devops team some guardrails and standards and libraries and you know things to leverage basically but as far as putting it into their own services and then also monitoring it to a certain extent yes we have a knock team but like you know at a certain point the dev team needs to get involved.  
Them: Correct.  
Me: Yeah, so definitely share like leverage shared services and and some standards and whatnot but the ownership the ultimate ownership and responsibility ideally is on the dev team. So yeah.  
Them: Yeah, makes sense.  
Me: Okay so let's see what do we talk about we talked about the event bus we talked about the IDP we talked about observability oh yeah so we a lot of our system lives in a lift it's live it was lifted and shifted from on-prem so we have a lot of ec2 instances. So I think there's a lot of opportunity to move things into at least containers but in many cases also more managed. Infrastructure and that goes for the data layer as well we talked about you know we talked about mongo being overused there's probably a lot of things that could be moved into. Things like dynamo or something that basically is infinitely scalable right so. So yeah it shift towards more managed services. And this now okay so one thing. I forgot to mention. Earlier because it's more important than some of these things there are disaster recovery solution that's also that's obviously super top of mind at the moment. Unfortunately we have to there's a lot of work associated with that precisely because much of our data and much of our infrastructure is not it's it's in managed it's in either self-hosted well we're moving away from that but it's not in managed services where you can just flip a switch and it goes to multi-region right so that's it which is which is why this disaster recovery project is more work than any of us would like it to be. So.  
Them: Martin, how is that architected? Is that, again, were you involved from the beginning of it in over the last six months?  
Me: I wasn't know not from the beginning but now obviously I think I'm pretty well up to speed on it.  
Them: Okay. Do we have.  
Me: At least at least. Exchange yeah.  
Them: Yeah, but do we have external help to validate? I know that when we move to AWS, it was a lift and shift and people were trying to do the best they knew at that time. I understand that we did not have a lot of external help. You know, trying to get the SMEs to come in and architect, right? The team were doing the best they can. So in this scenario for the Dr. Do we have that. What good looks like reference point or is it the teams trying to do the best they know and they can.  
Me: I think it's more of the latter but it's also we're not re-architecting. Much of anything for at this state this date we're just making sure that our current. Infrastructure or current architecture is all covered by infrastructure as code and we have good run books and things like that we're basically. The first approach to Dr. Is make sure the current solution is. Disaster recoverable as opposed to making major changes to make it easier. To make the Dr solution easier but that's not we're not doing that at this point.  
Them: Talk about Dr. Is it. You know, what is the target after you RPO that we are setting for it?  
Me: To our RPO for our RTO.  
Them: Okay.  
Me: And in our early in our the last the RPO we're meeting that easily we're we're hitting like 15 minutes or something yeah.  
Them: One more question. And I know that we have, we probably have a network. Effect because of the systems it's all working together, right? Exchange versus something else, something else. So are we are we modeling the scenario of. You know total failure versus targeted failure in different parts of the. Ecosystem. And then recovering. The whole system or how are we thinking about Dr.  
Me: Yeah it's a timely question we're just having this discussion now because. So the way we're thinking the way we're approaching it is we're failing over all of exchange or nothing so exchange all of the exchange needs to be live in the same region as of now at least. And yeah that's how that's how we're thinking about it.  
Them: So is there an is there a thought process here that in the future we want to look at this. Network of things working, let's say that.  
Me: Yeah.  
Them: 200 node. Ecosystem. And then we lost 50 nodes. In some part of the data flow, right message queue fail or a database failed something like that.  
Me: Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.  
Them: Then would you have to fill the entire thing over or do we just recover that small piece?  
Me: Yeah no I mean this is not an ideal state that we're talking about now what you're describing is where we would want to go I would actually argue that. As much as possible in some cases is not possible as much as possible our system should run multi-region. Every day and you some in in some cases you sort of get that for free if you move to more managed infrastructure. AWS takes care of it for you with many products at least so yeah that is I mean we're again this first phase is not the target state we definitely want to get more about you're describing and part of that is also again goes back to the monolith right now right now everything is so entangled that it sort of has to move together but as we loosen or break some of that coupling and really ideally the only the only coupling is through asynchronous. Queues or topics or whatnot then it becomes a lot easier to. In air quote fail over one piece of the system and not the rest.  
Them: Yeah, more of a self healing kind of network. Effect, right? So one opportunity here, I don't know whether I know that kick drum team had some conversation about Dr. But I was in some conversation. I could not attend all of them. I attended some of the conversation. And it sounded like it was just more high level. In that initial conversation. If there's an opportunity, I would encourage you to push kick drum. To understand the current architecture and the future thinking. And to give an external point of view. To say that is it.  
Me: Yeah.  
Them: You know again, I realized that there was a conversation that, you know, we are trying to get the Dr testing done in October. And I'm pretty sure there's a lot of prep need to be done to get to that point. But if there are. Paths to, I mean, one of the things that I heard from Steve and Steve was that he was more concerned about a lot of calories are being locked away. For a lot of these work. A lot of the capacity is locked away from product because the security work, Dr. Work, right? And some of these seems to be like long running task.  
Me: Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.  
Them: So you could potentially ask. Kick drum to take a deeper view, which will do two things, right? If it if there are opportunity to collapse some of those to speed to pull things to the left. That would be a good value. If it is actually not practical because of the complexity that it really takes time to do this right. Then it's an endorsement.  
Me: Yeah.  
Them: From them that will also create peace for the product team, right? Because it's something that need to be done. So both ways I think you may benefit getting them to focus.  
Me: Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.  
Them: More on it. Yeah.  
Me: Yeah so yeah that's that's that's a good call so how what's my how would I have those conversations with kick drum if you know to ask them to look closer at some area or things like how would how would how would I inflict my own sort of opinion or direction with them is it through you or how have those conversations.  
Them: Are you do you participate in the daily standups? No, right. Or okay.  
Me: No.  
Them: You participating in the weekly? Yeah, yeah.  
Me: No no I don't know.  
Them: We have a 15 minute stand up every day.  
Me: Okay.  
Them: With the kick drum and think tiff cjst Jamie and some other people from your organization are participating in it. It's mostly setting of the daily focus or unblocking them and they're also sharing the daily learnings that they have.  
Me: Okay.  
Them: Because I want them to keep velocity, right? I don't want them to reveal later. I want them to capture this knowledge every day. And then we have a weekly circle every Friday we have a steer go where they summarize the learnings from that week. And then discuss the focus for the next week. Right. So stairco may be an opportunity to push them to say let's go deeper here, wider there. But you could also orchestrate this through Jamie. I already asked them. Do they have good deeper understanding about the actual disaster recovery architecture. That the team is building on. They said they'll compare nodes and come back to me in today's today's daily sign up I asked. But I think what my recommendation to you is that if you have a point of view about you and the team to go deeper here wider there. You could send a note to them. Right Jamie cc me. Or if you if cj and jamie wants more coordination in your end, you can actually have an internal coordination and then send it out. But I will just make sure that I'll push them.  
Me: Yeah.  
Them: I'll push kick drum to go where you actually are seeing helpful where they should be going deeper.  
Me: Okay.  
Them: Yeah, I'll facilitate it. But initiated from your end.  
Me: Okay all right. That sounds good.  
Them: Process wise, I know there are there is some constraint I understand in terms of the capital allocation. There are product. Were you in that readout last week?  
Me: No.  
Them: The intermembered out okay you you should you should really get invited to those readouts.  
Me: No. No.  
Them: Because as a leader right you're holding the exchange. You could potentially talk to Jamie or court is to say that hey we are this conversation. What was talking about this weekly readouts. And then the interim radar there was like a two hour readout on Friday.  
Me: Every week.  
Them: Every four weeks there's a two hour readout.  
Me: Okay.  
Them: Every Friday there's a 30 minute readout.  
Me: Okay.  
Them: Right so you should request to be invited to add it to those meetings because then you're actually learning what they took away and then you can actually focus them more. The second part is that it also gives you this broader view right so while you're focusing automation.  
Me: Yeah.  
Them: We have other dependencies right and you can see the interview of it so I would encourage you to talk to cjoor that is code is to say that hey, I understood there is this readout that is helpful can I get a copy of those materials and can I get involved you know be invited to those three routes will be very helpful.  
Me: That's good so Curtis is already part of it right.  
Them: I believe so.  
Me: Okay.  
Them: Yeah courtesy not ask any questions on the on the curis was there Curtis made some interesting comments on the Friday.  
Me: Okay. Good.  
Them: But it's educational it's also helpful to navigate them right once you know look you hold. You hold the critical piece in the puzzle.  
Me: Yeah. Okay.  
Them: All right, so that's good. So let's talk maybe you know two two or three minutes on. Challenges that you have in your role. That I know that you you're able to restructure your team which is actually a good empowerment but between product engineering leadership top down from your level down.  
Me: Yeah.  
Them: What kind of challenges you have do you have clarity on decision authority for example. Across the team clarity on decision authority. Right.  
Me: Yeah. So I would say. I I do as as it relates to my team however we do we do have and this has been confirmed by people who has been there for a long longer than I have too we definitely have a conflicting priorities is a common theme that basically we have many number one priorities and they're not always aligned from the top down into the various arms of the organization. So for example and I think it's getting a lot better as of late because because it's been raised up and I think CJ is taking it very seriously and having these conversations or whatever. So this example might be a little bit outdated but but bear with me so for example we may have disaster recovery coming as a number one priority from the you know tech arm that's CJ is understandably pushing that we need to you know pursue that with highest priority. And then but that's not necessarily always aligned with. Let's say the product organization actually that piece I think is much much better now with Steven cj and steve seem very aligned but before that it was definitely not right so we would have. Our CTO saying this is priority but then that's not aligned with the product arm and they they are getting mad basically because we're taking capacity away from their commercial roadmap essentially right and then similarly maybe the customer experience arm they have you know they they feel that it's. The highest priority is to eliminate customer reported defects or whatever it might be right so. That that has been traditionally a bit of a challenge I think it's it seems like it's getting a lot better but if you go back six months it was definitely a pain point. So what else would I say about oh it's and then. I mean this the capacity thing that you're talking about it is I mean we all want to get to we all want to get to a place where we spend the majority of our engineering resources on innovation delivering better value to the customer and so on so there's a bit of a push and pull here where the two things that I held out at the top of the call right like we need to get their teams. Autonomous decoupled to the point where they can not be constrained by each other. And then this first pass at the data layer I feel like that is very much we need to do that before we start shifting capacity in any major way. And unfortunately both of those things are a little bit impeded by the this Mythos project vulnerabilities right we haven't actually talked about that today but I'm sure it's on your radar so the Mythos project and then the disaster recovery solution we got to get those those are sort of must do's. And then and then I we need to get we need to get decoupled teams right now every every trade-off decision. You know if we're talking about should we do this commercial thing where it has a certain ROI or should we do this tech improvement most it's always at the whole exchange level we have to make the decision for the entire system almost because it's so coupled so we really really really have to get to. A more not a perfect.  
Them: S there skill bottleneck or is it more the tech coupling that's causing it?  
Me: It's the tech it's the tech coupling and yeah it's the tech coupling which then couples the deployment cycle that's really the big piece the deployment cycle is coupled and and we need to break out of that. So.  
Them: Okay so I think we should definitely get kicked on the thing about these right so you should really say that hey here's my top priorities for exchange. Right this tech coupling. The coarse grain deployment lack of deployment flexibility takes four weeks for us to deploy like to break it down help us figure out a way to break it down I will talk to them as well but it'll be helpful that you have a punch list.  
Me: Okay.  
Them: Coming from as an exchange leader to say that here is where I can use for use some help you guys get from right that'd be helpful.  
Me: What would help me. At a high level for them just to validate I don't I don't feel like I don't feel like anyone is not trusting what I'm saying that's not the problem it's not a problem but it would still help if kick drum came in and validated that we this is a great approach and we need to do these one and two three things and then we can kind of shift capacity that would be very.  
Them: Yeah. Yeah I would say that point the problems to them saying that here are the challenges we face today right we got a deployment problem we got the monolith problem we got the team lockdown problem we are taking step on this by restructuring the teams and doing XYZ advice is what more can we do here right they would just look at the problem they'll say yeah we are thinking about the right problem what the steps you are taking is great but only goes halfway you should be doing five things more or maybe this is perfect there's nothing more to do right just accelerate them right whatever it may be we open to here right so just focus them on. All right so Martin this is really helpful this conversation educational for me. Great meeting you always seen I've observed your conversation looks like in six months you have taken good command of the situation. It's good to hear as you think through think of me as a partner in this process so if anything I can help you please you know let me know or you know share with me. Because I can only facilitate things I know right I know that there are different layers here CJ curt is hopefully you can you can all be aligned and I told them that I sometimes I'll reach out to people directly because you know it's easier to get unfiltered straight answer so you can definitely reach out to me anytime you need or where I can be helpful but over the next. Six weeks. Let's try to push kick drum. To the maximum value we can get from them right again it's it's really important to focus them on problem areas where we think when they can go wherever they want. Plus the places you want them to go deeper or wide right that's a weird thing about you don't want to stop them from going a to B let's say oh don't go there we don't want to say it go wherever you want plus.  
Me: Yeah.  
Them: Things you want them to go deeper quieter right let's just focus on that way. All right.  
Me: Great.  
Them: Awesome.  
Me: Thank you yeah nice meeting thank you.  
Them: Great seeing you yeah. Take care bye. 