- Summary (very approximate timelines)
	- 19:00 EventBus MongoDB cluster down
		- Documents could not be processed
		- Documents were being received the entire time
	- 22:30 the mono cluster was restarted, which seemed to bring it back to a green state. Then the team worked on getting the applications to start re-processing the backlog of documents. Initially the applications could not reconnect to the cluster.
		- there was a significant delay (2 hours or so) before we restarted the database clusters. This was the suggested course of action very quickly after the incident started, but Jeff was unavailable and for some reason, nobody else on the DBA team felt comfortable performing that action.
	- 23:00 After a couple of more restarts, applications could reconnect. Documents started processing again
	- 23:30 It took some manual actions (need to get this from Daniel and Thiagu) to redrive and reprocess the documents that

Some notes/observations/takeaways
- the "guaranteed Io" SQS mechanism seem to work as intended at a basic level however, we need to take a look at the logic around re-driving and processing messages from that queue specifically the logic around the messages being moved to the dead letter queue and also the fact that it retries every message 10 times without any progressive back off this is causing a lot of connections to the database
- replacing a current Mongo DB, based event bus with an actual queueing and eventing system needs to be very high priority in general. I think we need to move the efforts to improve our architecture around the Mongo data basis near the top of the priority list.