- The high level architecture, aligned with the teams (or rather, we created the teams according to the architecture)
- There are a number of things we know we will need to do
	- no more shared databases
	- replace the event bus 
	- replace direct decencies with events and messaging
	- move away from EC2 towards containers and managed services 
- ... but the details and the sequencing will need to be figured out by each team. And in order for that to not be a huge enterprise project, we need to get to autonomous teams.
- Earlier capacity shift
	- The competing work (DR) is not only about resource contention - the DR work is largely about IaC, deployments etc., so it is not possible to do at the same time as much of the decoupling work. Some decoupling will happen as part of the DR work...
	- Also, want to address the P0 database issues before shifting capacity
		- Does not neccesarily involve all teams

### Transcript ###
Meeting Title: Architecture roadmap — autonomous teams, database stability, and disaster recovery sequencing
Date: May 28
Meeting participants: Mårten Engblom

Transcript:
 
Me: There are a couple of things I want to add that I forgot to mention in the first. Transcript. The first one is that. While we don't have. A very detailed target architecture at this point. We do have. A high level architecture picture. It is basically. Aligned with how the teams are formed or actually rather we created the themes according to the architecture. Again, the reverse Conway maneuver. To. Steer the architecture towards that end state. But it's really at a high level. Not at an individual service level or anything like that. There are a number of things obviously that we know we will need to change. With architecture. We need to get rid of. Shared databases. We need to replace the event bus. We need to replace direct dependencies or direct service calls with events and messaging. And we need to move away from easy to instances towards containers and managed services. Just to mention a few examples. But again, the details and the sequencing of. These things. Will need to be figured out by each team and it will vary by team. And again. In order for this to not be a huge enterprise project that needs to be carefully coordinated across the entire exchange system, we need to get to autonomous teams first so that work can happen. More organically and more locally in each team. The other thing I wanted to add was in regards to the question about the earlier capacity shift. I forgot to mention that the competing work, which is mostly the disaster recovery, is not only about resource contention. The Dr. work is largely about infrastructure as code. Deployments and so on. Which is obviously it's the same. Bits and pieces that we need to. Touch and break and whatnot. As we. Decouple the architecture and get the teams to autonomy. So it's not really possible to do at the same time as much of the decoupling work. Now. Some of the disaster recovery work will necessitate. Some decoupling. So we will get some synergies or benefits there. But it's not really possible. To parallelize the two efforts unfortunately. Then also in regards to the question about the earlier capacity shift. Other than getting to this initial first. Good enough state of autonomous teams. The other thing I mentioned in the deck was that we also want to tackle. What I call the p0 database issues, the most egregious problems in. Our database layer. Again. Most of our more serious incidents have to do with the data layer in our databases. So I would want to take at least. One pass at improving that situation for. Stability and scalability and so on. And I would want to do that before we start shifting capacity away from technical work towards commercial work. That database work does not necessarily involve all teams. Some teams. Are much more. Backend and data oriented than others. So I think we will definitely be able to shift. Capacity towards commercial work. On some teams while. This database work is still going on. But again. This is not. Defined yet to the point where we can put that in a Gantt chart or a detailed project plan. We will have more visibility into this over the next. Weeks or a couple of months or so. 