### Granola Transcript ###
 
CJ: Mr. Martin, how are you?  
Me: Hey, CJ, how are you?  
CJ: I'm good. I'm good.  
Me: India trip?  
CJ: Starting. Man.  
Me: Yeah.  
CJ: You never sent me that formula to be jet lag.  
Me: Oh. Man. I'm sorry.  
CJ: You need to please, can you send me something? Because I need. I've never paid attention to managing the jet lag. And now I've, like, sworn I need to do something because it is ridiculous. How much I hurt.  
Me: I will send it to you today.  
CJ: All right, cool. Thank you. Let's get into it. I know you've sent some emails. I haven't read them. I've been. Like, back to back to back.  
Me: I should have done it right.  
CJ: So you can pull it up and we can talk through it.  
Me: Okay that sounds good. Let's see what do you want to start with? Metrics. Or.  
CJ: Yeah, there were two topics, metrics and monolith. So let's start with the monolith email.  
Me: Okay sounds good. So I will just pull this up on the screen here I think maybe I mean I did take some time to articulate it so it's probably helpful if you I mean if you want to take a few minutes in silence that might work.  
CJ: Yeah. Let me read it. So. Look, we you remember the one pager with top six priorities for the tag board? Right.  
Me: From there you and Curtis had put together yeah.  
CJ: If you.  
Me: Yeah.  
CJ: Yeah. If you see breaking the monolith is in the resiliency box.  
Me: Yeah.  
CJ: I.e. The intent. Was. Or the theory was we need to break the monolith to improve reliability. So. My question is. Do we. Need to the way you are describing the monolith here? What is the business goal is the business goal increased reliability? Or something else?  
Me: It is it's multifold so it's definitely reliability but I would argue that. We get a lot of that reliability. Benefit from that p0 database. Work that I'm describing.  
CJ: Yeah.  
Me: Yeah a lot of the.  
CJ: Which is, which is in that box.  
Me: Yeah.  
CJ: And well on its way. Right.  
Me: Well if you're referring to the atlas migration that's part of it that there's more in that p0 data base swim lane than that.  
CJ: What is, what, what is more outside of the migration?  
Me: So the migration I mean we're do it's a lift and shift yes we're splitting a couple of clusters and achieving some isolation there whatever but we have we're using mongo for a ton of things that we shouldn't be and in ways that we shouldn't be doing it. We. Are abusing some of those databases to the point where they're not gonna it's not gonna scale and we're still not out of the woods in terms of. You know we've eliminated we've done a lot to stabilize them out of the woods.  
CJ: You're saying. That box. Should have more database work that is not called out.  
Me: You're referring back to your the yeah yeah so if the line item in that slide only refers to migrating to atlas it need it should have more there now the migration to atlas is absolutely the first step we're doing.  
CJ: It's fine. What would you put in there? Let's put it in there.  
Me: Okay. So.  
CJ: To double check. You would remove the breaking the monolith from that box. Because it's more of a breaking of how we are organized versus the architecture. That bullet was about the architecture.  
Me: Yeah. Some some of breaking the monolith in terms of the code some is necessary to allow the teams to to become autonomous right some of it is is necessary but like what I've been saying I mean I'm broad brushing a little bit but even if we end up with 12 mini monoliths it is. It is infinitely better than what where we are now in terms of how we can operate. But that still leaves a lot of architecture improvements on the table you know we're not done right so there's still that roadmap might stretch for a long long time but it can be once we are at autonomous teams those trade-offs can be done. Much more locally and much more nimbly than what today we have to choose make those choices commercial versus technology technical we have to make them more or less for the entire exchange right like it's.  
CJ: I understand. Look. Hon, you don't have to preach me on where what we need to do and why my struggle is. This resiliency Spike. Is seemingly endless with no end in sight.  
Me: Right.  
CJ: And engineering leadership is not able to communicate what is the definition of time. Significant gap. So when I get the question, what is the definition of done? I go back to the box. And what I'm discovering is what curt is put in that box is not really what is happening on the ground. So all I care about right now. Is to get radical clarity on what is the definition of done. For the resiliency spike. Because we cannot be in this state. That we are forever. Improving resiliency of exchange. We need to get going on running the business.  
Me: But but isn't that isn't that. I guess I don't. What why do why does it so after we get when we get to a point where we can shift capacity back to norm more normal ratio. I mean there's always going to be. Technical work left to do right that we're never going to not have that so so.  
CJ: That's why I'm saying even 50 50. I'm not saying 100 zero.  
Me: Yeah.  
CJ: The rule of thumb we have used is 80 20 in the past 80 on commercial 20 on tech headroom.  
Me: Yeah.  
CJ: For exchange. It has been flipped. More than flipped for more than two years now.  
Me: Yeah.  
CJ: Without any end in sight.  
Me: So and I'm what. I think I don't think we will get to a state where we have autonomous teams by the end of q3. That and that's my challenge and partially because.  
CJ: Okay, let's, let's keep autonomous teams on this side. I want to talk through that.  
Me: Okay.  
CJ: I'm still, what is the definition of done on the resiliency spike? We started all this with resiliency. And I don't know how much context you have, what Curtis has told you, what he hasn't. I went to the board and said, we need to spike capacity on resiliency. And we'll be done by summer of 2025. It is the summer of 2026. And we are not able to communicate what is the definition of done.  
Me: Yeah. Well I think good enough a good enough state is if once when we get past these p0 so we have the monolith broken apart enough. That. Basically into at the very least into the 12 areas that kind of that we've overlaid the team the org chart with right so it's it's and again that's why it's tied to a ton to team autonomy so it's broken apart enough that. Each team can own their own destiny. And we've done the p the absolute the p0 database work. Then that's a good enough state there I mean obviously there's there's a long long long list of. Stability and scalability improvements that's stack ranked we can you know there's going to be many. Maybe not critical but like important and medium importance and low importance there's going to be a long list of that left we're basically never going to be done with that because we're we would be introducing.  
CJ: I get it. You don't have to preach me that I have the one who been telling this an extra GH for six years now.  
Me: Yeah. So.  
CJ: But I'm not getting a clear answer. What is the. Definition of done for the resiliency spike? Technical work? Not how we are organized, Etc.  
Me: Okay.  
CJ: Technical work. To get to a more. A state where we are like, you know, we are good enough. We can go back to a normal operation. What is the definition of done for that?  
Me: So is that not is what I said not crisp enough so broke the monolith is broken apart enough that teams can operate in the p zero database work is that not.  
CJ: I don't know why teaming teams independent. How is, how are teams in operating independently? Related to reliability of the system?  
Me: So well I guess in in in two ways then so by definition you have the system is somewhat isolated right like it's somewhat somewhat decoupled and also now we have sort of 12 swim lanes where we can continuously address. Resiliency problems or scalability problems or stability problems on an ongoing basis so we can we're going to be able to just react to that much better going forward.  
CJ: So this is all conceptual. I'm just asking about specifics.  
Me: Okay.  
CJ: And even conceptual. So I've sort of stayed away from why these 12. How did you come up with this 12? But let's talk about for a minute. And I want to come back to resiliency and reliability.  
Me: Yeah.  
CJ: Currently. There is no product vision for exchange that I know of. In absence of a product vision, how did we come up with the structure of the teams?  
Me: So i'm trying to find my original. Deck there but basically so from a high level the system architecture is I mean obviously there's multiple ways to skin a cat but it it's it's it's not that hard to draw up the high level system architecture you have an I/O layer you have the core of the exchange you have actions and rules and mapping and then you have my exchange there's some some very clear areas that you form teams and ownership around and that's the high level that's the high level architecture and that's the high level componentization or the high level breaking apart that that I would say is this is this is the phase one good enough now we're in a much better state we can start operating more normally to use your words.  
CJ: Yeah, but to one of the things I'm trying to do is declare to Steve, go build the product vision of the exchange.  
Me: Yeah. Okay.  
CJ: And he's saying there is no capacity. So why waste my time? And now, now if, if I'm like, no, you do it starting Q3, you'll get capacity. They come up with some product vision. It may invalidate how you're structuring the teams.  
Me: No I don't I don't think so I mean definitely not wholesale at least it might have might have consequences we may have.  
CJ: It, it has some risk, right? So what I'm really struggling.  
Me: Yeah.  
CJ: Is you keep on saying teams and breaking the team.  
Me: Yeah.  
CJ: It's this independent and separate thing. My commitment was around resiliency. And still not getting a clear. These are the technical milestones we need to achieve. So, for example, we keep on saying you can't release code reliability. Testing is an issue. Is that what you want to put in the box?  
Me: Yeah those things okay okay I'm sorry if I'm missing your point or your question those things will be. If not completely resolved we will be in an infinitely better state when when we are when we have autonomous teams that release independently infinitely better like the the reason I don't know how much you probably know this already but the reason we can only release monthly is because it takes us three weeks to execute the test cycle and that's because it's it's done for the whole exchange at once.  
CJ: Yeah. So. Modern. Are you tracking me when I say. I said two things. What we put in the box?  
Me: Yeah.  
CJ: Doesn't seem like that is what is happening on the ground. Or that is what you believe. I'm just saying. Put what you believe needs to be put in the box. So there is a clear definition of done. And not conceptual, but specific things. Right? There were three specific things in there. And the fourth one breaking the monolith was ambiguous. Now I'm learning. It's actually not a technical break. It's a team structure. But, and there is more scope that you consider p zero. Just call it out. What is it? So we can provide a clear definition of done. When. The resiliency spike ends. And we go back to a somewhat normal state, even a 50 50 is not normal. But fine. It's somewhat normal, a 50 50. Because right now the whole business is stacked.  
Me: Yeah.  
CJ: I don't know how many discussions I have every single day. Where it's like we can't do anything because there is no capacity. And we are failing to communicate. When are we done? And there will be capacity to go back to normal business.  
Me: So but in to what level of detail do we want need to say that to because it gets. Yeah. To what level of detail do you need to say that to let's say steam? What does he want what is what is need.  
CJ: I need to understand even I don't understand.  
Me: Okay. But okay. But yeah I guess I'm missing why is it why is it not adequate to the. Definition that I try to articulate at least why is it not adequate the teams are operating independently and we've done the first pass.  
CJ: Because I don't know how teams are independent operating independently related to reliability. I don't know. Again conceptually. I'm not talking Concepts. I'm talking specifics. I don't know the specifics.  
Me: Okay.  
CJ: The second is. Like you have some scope in mind for what you're calling p zero. I don't know what that is beyond the migration.  
Me: Well and yeah there some.  
CJ: So hold on third, which I want to be very transparent. I don't like the answer of Q4. I'm going to be very transparent. So I want to understand what are the trade offs?  
Me: Yeah.  
CJ: And I hope I'm not surprising you because even two weeks ago, I told you, if you come back with Q4, I'm going to push you. What does it take for Q3? And what are the trade-offs?  
Me: Yeah. I. Don't know if there's I mean if we're good trade-offs might have to involve I mean we're up against the wall with this DR work I think that's I mean that's the problem we don't have there's not much we can do to move that. In fact what we're trying to do is get it out of the way much much sooner than what we're obligated to just so we can move on to the rest of the work. Otherwise yeah that is definitely a point of contention and I think I mentioned it it's not it's not really resources per se it's like the work is on the same. It it's touching the same pieces. Infrastructure as code you know automation deployments and whatnot.  
CJ: So listen, I mean, you asked me a question. Why is this not sufficient? I gave you an answer. Can you play it back to me? And then let's, I guess debate it. If you don't agree with what I'm saying?  
Me: Well let me ask you this is it. We need more detail so basically the. It's it's a technical checklist thereafter.  
CJ: Nobody's asked me. I, I personally don't understand it. Forget about. My struggles. I've been, I'm having struggle every single day.  
Me: Okay.  
CJ: That I can give a clear answer to what is the definition of done. It seems endless work. Second. I promised last summer. It is this summer. I still don't have a clear answer. So I need you to understand there's a, I'm in a very tough spot.  
Me: Yeah yeah I appreciate.  
CJ: And I don't understand this. I'm pretty surprised to hear this is a team breakup versus an architecture breakup. That is not what Curtis and I discussed when we put it in the list. So at the end of the day. Right now, what matters. Is what do you want to put in that box? It's your box. You are the exchange leader.  
Me: So.  
CJ: And breaking the team doesn't correct.  
Me: Okay so things like. More more granular deployment pipelines. Is that that is that fits the definition.  
CJ: But how does it relate to reliability? As long as it relates to liability.  
Me: Okay. Yeah.  
CJ: Pipelines, Etc. Is more about speed. I'm still talking about reliability. And when we talk about reliability, it needs to back into data. Based on incidents. So that it is a fact based discussion. That is the work we did. Two years ago, by the way.  
Me: Okay.  
CJ: We, we looked at all the tickets, all the root causes, we categorize them. That is how we came up with the body of work we need to do.  
Me: Yeah.  
CJ: We didn't just say conceptually, this seems like a good idea.  
Me: Yeah okay so maybe I'm maybe hope I don't know hopefully I'm catching on so here I guess so I think if I went back and looked at that list I think a lot of those reliability solves or reliability issues will still be left on the backlog when we are in in Q4 according to this plan but but. They we will be able to. Organically go after them. And and make much smaller trade-off choices with commercial items such that we can do it at a 50 50 or 60 40 capacity right.  
CJ: Yeah, absolutely.  
Me: Okay so I so I think that. We're not going to be we're not going to be done with the resiliency work in terms of have we solved all the reliability problems that's still left to do but we put ourselves in a situation where we can still shift capacity.  
CJ: Okay, let's talk the same words. You have seen, you've heard me. Use the term resiliency spike. What does that mean to you?  
Me: Well I actually I'm not sure but I know we have a huge list of resiliency work multiple places.  
CJ: Now? So let me clarify what it means.  
Me: Okay.  
CJ: It means we're going to put. In ordinate amount of capacity towards residency. Which we have. For two years. So when I say end the resiliency Spike. It means first coming to 50 50 capacity. Then going to 4060 or 30, 40, whatever. After that, it's up to you. To define.  
Me: Yeah.  
CJ: But at minimum, coming to 50 50. Is the first step of ending the resiliency spike resiliency spike is spike in capacity. Going to resiliency.  
Me: Yeah. So so okay so if I'm saying. The the the milestone we need to reach is that each of the 12 team teams can deploy their. Their domain their services independently that and then we at that point we shift to 50 50 is that is that why is that not a definition of done?  
CJ: Because I don't know how is it related to reliability?  
Me: Okay so then but then okay so then you're not really asking for what's the definition of done you want to showcase that we've actually addressed. Some reliability things with that work right.  
CJ: I need to know first before I can showcase. I want to know what is the reliability work?  
Me: Yeah you need to know yeah and and and that's what I most of that work is not. Head on addressing any reliability issues but the work that specifically addressing reliability issues in what's on the screen is the p0 database work.  
CJ: Then. Call that out. Right. I, I said this a couple of times now. Whatever was put in that box, it doesn't seem like that is what is happening on the ground. To be very candid. It's your time to write what you want to write in the box.  
Me: Yeah. Yeah. I don't know what was sort of built into that one sentence in the box I mean I think we are we are breaking the monolith but it's not from one piece to 500 at the at once right it's from 1 to 12 to you know 50 when this the first step is the one to 12 essentially.  
CJ: Yeah. Listen, I got to run to my next thing.  
Me: Yeah. I'm sorry I feel like I'm disappointing you.  
CJ: I am a little, I won't say disappointed, but I am a little concerned.  
Me: Okay.  
CJ: And because I'm not getting a clear clarity on what is the definition of done for resiliency spike, I, I don't think even before you and I had this discussion, you knew what resiliency spike means. So I just, I'm concerned about a significant. Gap in communication. And I don't know what has been told to you. And what, what are the assumptions under which you're operating? But is my ask more clear now?  
Me: Yeah I mean I think so partially at least. Let me you know I should I'm gonna. I'll see if Curtis can provide because he has more history right context I can sort of.  
CJ: What else do you need to know? I've said a lot of things on this call.  
Me: Yeah yeah. No I think I think I I hope I have enough.  
CJ: Why don't you do this? Why don't you just say based on this discussion, send us an email.  
Me: But.  
CJ: On what is my ask? To the best of your understanding. And we go from there. We meet on Monday and I clarify whether this is what I'm asking or not.  
Me: Yeah sure. Yeah.  
CJ: But I'll repeat. Make that box yours. Put what are the four or five things that needs to happen.  
Me: Yeah.  
CJ: If in order to do those things. We go, we cannot get them done. By. The Q3 milestone of achieving 50 50. Capacity. Tell us why. And what can we take out from that box? To get to Q3 5050.  
Me: End of Q3 I assume mean right yeah yeah.  
CJ: Yeah. And a few. Things. So we get to Q4 with 50 50. So in parallel, I can tell steve. You have. Its May end, right? So June, July, August, September. To really nail down the product vision. Four months. Can you do that?  
Me: Yeah.  
CJ: So just play back everything I'm asking in an email and the objective. We'll see whether we are on the same page or not. And then we'll go from there.  
Me: Okay yeah that sounds good.  
CJ: Yeah. Thanks.  
Me: Okay thank you.  
CJ: Yeah. 