---
date: 2026-03-03
tags:
  - Hiring
  - AuditDB
  - MongoDB
  - Database
  - Architecture
  - Organization
  - CoreX
  - Engineering
  - India
  - daily_note
  - journal
content_type: daily_note
destination_category: 60-69 Archive
kb_insights: true
---
*Tuesday*

# Tasks
- [ ] Director of Engineering offer for Aaron Srivastava
- [x] Complete User Access Review
- [x] Hiring material (Confluence page?) - read Daniel's input
- [ ] Communications around target Exchange Org
- [ ] 

# Notes
- Biweekly Sync with Sandy (HRBP)
	- What is happening with Srikanth - latest is that he WAS  supposed to move to Product, but is now moving to CX (customer experience). I need to sync with Curtis and Ramesh
	- What is happening with Christine - It seems like she is going to move to Product (and Christine seems to be on board with this). The open question is what happens from a headcount and funding question. 
		- I need to align with Curtis on our position regarding the funding.
		- I need to align with Marlin on Christine's future commitments - we do need her to stay engaged with Christine.
	- What is happening with Zach Knarr - he should stay in the Exchange organization, but needs a titles chance (from System Analyst to something more aligned with Engineering)
- Exchange Hiring Standup meeting
	- We still owe TA some job descriptions
	- We need 1 additional US based Engineering Manager JD
- Ad hoc conversation with Suresh, Dan etc. about next steps, roadmap items etc. coming out of the Audit DB incident
	- I want us to discuss actual, deeper architectural improvements before resorting to temporary band-aid solutions, or throwing money at the problem (i.e. sharding)
	- We need to discuss why we need to store the 188M ActivityFlow documents per day in MongoDB, only to delete them and archive them to S3 3 days later. We have the mechanism to rehydrate from S3, why not store them there to begin with?
	- We need to start removing bad dependencies on the Audit DB cluster:
		- Our SFTP endpoints should not go down because Audit DB is unresponsive
		- Our core document processing should not go down because Audit DB is unresponsive 
- Met with Daniel and Venkatesh to discuss Venkatesh moving to the Exchange org. 
	- Backend engineer
	- Has learned frontend tech in the last few years - nobody else was willing to pick it up
	- Wants to get back to pure backend engineering
	- Wants to solve performance / scalability problems
	- -> I and Daniel agree that the CoreX team will be the best fit. We have an open Sr. Engineer role.
	- Next steps: 
		- Daniel and Mike Mitchell will meet with Venkatesh to give him more team insight. 
		- Venkatesh will formally apply to the role
- 1x1 with Daniel
- 1x1 with Curtis
- Cancelled April flights to Hyderabad via Qatar (due to the Iran war)
	- Rebooked via LHR 1 day earlier (April 13-21)
- Approved 29,792.00 USD Happiest Minds invoice