---
date: 2026-03-09
tags:
  - AuditDB
  - MongoDB
  - Atlas
  - Planning
  - Hiring
  - Mapping
  - IPA
  - Organization
  - Obsidian
  - daily_note
  - journal
content_type: daily_note
destination_category: 60-69 Archive
kb_insights: false
---
*Monday*

# Tasks
- [ ] Communications around target Exchange Org 
- [ ] Job description for Principal Engineer - Data Architecture & Engineering
- [ ] Obsidian Process Inbox skill

Week Goals:
- [ ] Communications around target Exchange Org + All Hands Meeting
- [ ] Crystal clear plan for Audit DB migration + Atlas Migration schedule impact
- [ ] Draft Exchange North Star goals
- [ ] KR progress / updates
	- [ ] All work in Jira
	- [ ] OSS Vulnerabilities
	- [ ] VM Vulnerabilities
	- [ ] Agile Maturity Model
	- [ ] Survey for AI (Claude only?) adoption?
# Notes
- 1x1 with Ramesh
	- Discussed the benefits of interviewing in pairs; Ramesh agrees and will introduce this practice in India
		1. Gets you 2 opinions. Make sure they log their feedback without discussing with each other first.
		2. Is an opportunity for less experienced interviewers to learn.
	- Radha is proposing to use a hybrid approach of using Claude for Classification & Bautomate for Extraction. Has concernswith our ability to meet the 12/31 deadline (UiPAth and FirstSource contracts are coming to renewal)​
	- Vivek and Gowtham gave a presentation of what they learnt in the last 3 weeks. When is a good time to introduce them toMatt Turner?​
		- Marten suggested to contact Daniel directly
		- Note to self; I feel behind on the wider communications around the Exchange org - need to get this out ASAP - target Thursday​
	- Curtis' Staff meeting end of March:​ Not 100% sure it is happening, Ramesh does not need to book travel​
- Wrote comms emphasizing the priorities around Audit DB and wider Atlas migration schedule: [[2026-03-09 09.00 Email regarding Audit DB migration]]
	- Had more in-depth discussion about this with the team. Will have daily follow-up meetings until a plan is firmly in place. 
	- Will need to send CJ an update on this on EOD Wed.
- Sent first weekly update to CJ per Curtis' request: [[2026-03-09 Executive Update - Week of March 2-6]]
- 