---
date: 2026-03-04
tags:
  - Incident
  - DR
  - AuditDB
  - Hiring
  - Aaron-Srivastava
  - Leadership
  - Engineering
  - daily_note
  - journal
content_type: daily_note
destination_category: 60-69 Archive
kb_insights: false
---
*Wednesday*

# Tasks
- [x] Talk to Daniel about owning the DR initiaitve
- [ ] Director of Engineering offer for Aaron Srivastava
- [ ] Communications around target Exchange Org
- [ ] Answer some questions in: [Global Exchange Development - Confluence](https://prd.hub.ghx.com/wiki/spaces/EX/pages/997326849/Post+AuditDB+Incident+Brainstorming+Session) 

# Notes
- Incident review meeting. We went over the Audit DB incident, progression, RCA, and the current efforts to plot a path forward.
- Exchange Automation POD meeting.
	- Laura touched on Q2 planning efforts, new Customer Defect intake process.
	- I went over the Audit DB incident, progression, RCA, and the current efforts to plot a path forward.
- Chatted a bit more with Suresh after the brainstorm meeting... 
- Had an "additional" 1x1 call with Daniel
	- Talked to Daniel about the [[2026-03-04 09.45 Event Platform Team - Brainstorming Session and Sprint Planning]] session... why I got frustrated for a while etc.
	- Talked to Daniel about him owning the DR project
		- Daniel is going to own it. He suggested leveraging [[Philippe Scoffie]] to project manage this. I think that was a great idea.
		- They are going to put together a plan/confluence page informed by the Happiest Minds report on the DR exercise. 
- Call with Curtis
	- CJ was not in favor of giving Daniel a merit increase > the standard 3%
		- "He already has a retention bonus"
		- ""
	- Will talk about surge funding on Exchange in the next 2 weeks