---
date: 2026-03-02
tags:
  - Hiring
  - Aaron-Srivastava
  - AuditDB
  - MongoDB
  - Atlas
  - Database
  - Architecture
  - Infrastructure
  - Organization
  - daily_note
  - journal
content_type: daily_note
destination_category: 60-69 Archive
kb_insights: true
---
*Monday*

# Tasks
- [x] Respond to CJ's email about Audit MongoDB remediation plans and timelines
- [x] Clean up calendar conflicts
- [ ] Director of Engineering offer for Aaron Srivastava
- [ ] Communications around target Exchange Org

# Notes
- My org is not very mature in how it looks at roles, talent, etc... Quite inexperienced interviewing, judging candidates without treating JDs as checklists. Even TA is a little too stuck on wanting precise criteria for what defines a good candidate.
- Conversation with Arshad about Aaron S.
	- Aligned with hiring decision.
	- Also aligned with my thinking around infrastructure and IaC - the Exchange product teams need to own more of it as we move to more cloud native architectures.
- Conversation with Daniel on the need to open our minds a little on how to make performance improvements in and around Audit DB:
	- Yeah, I just want us top open up the conversation a little. For a couple of reasons:  
		1. "Never let a crisis go to waste" - We need to make some large architecture changes anyway, if not now, then starting immediately after the migration. Right now there will be a lot of understanding for us going after some of those things. I don't want us to go to Atlas, shard the crap out of these databases, and then get complacent to the current design.
		2. I am actually quite concerned about the performance of Atlas, and think we need to improve the our "headroom" quite a bit more than just enough to get through the migration.
		3. To a certain extent I am also using this as an opening to start these conversations - to your point above, we need to get everyone out of the duct tape and bubblegum mindset (it is great that we know how to use those tools as well... but not all the time)
- 