### My Notes ###

- Stated Experiences (mentioned high level as part of intro):
	- GCP, AWS, Azure
	- Distributed systems
	- Multiple Databases
	- Service bus, SQS, Kafka etc.
	- Microservices
- Seems like more of a software engineering manager than a data engineer / architect...
- ... albeit very knowledgable in the data space given his roles
- Databases / Data stores
	- MySQL
	- Oracle
	- MongoDB
	- DynamoDB
- Communication is a bit shaky...
- This is better than previous candidate, but still a pass. Not deep enough experience in data architecture and engineering.

### Granola Transcript ###

Me: Yeah. So we have 30 minutes. We'll do just some quick introductions, and then I'll tell you just a little bit about the. The company, and then we'll talk about your background and things like that. And then if you have any questions in the end, we'll. We'll have time for that as well.  
Them: Definitely. Let's go.  
Me: So do you know. Do you know anything about ghx?  
Them: Yes, I mean like very little it's in healthcare company and it supports some healthcare, I mean health services. That's all I had the knowledge about, you know, so not much.  
Me: Okay. All right. Yeah. So, like you said, we. We work in the. We. We build systems for the supply chain in health. In healthcare. So in other words, when hospitals and clinics and such, when they order anything from band-aids to artificial knee joints, they. They don't go to the manufacturer directly. They go through an exchange like ours. And we're the largest in the. In the us. We have about 90 of the market. So in a nutshell, we basically translate and map and route documents. Back and forth that's involved in the. In the ordering or the supply chain process. So starting with purchase orders. Order confirmations, shipment confirmations and things like that. Right. So that's what we do. We. The company was founded as a conglomeration between a number of big players in the industry. They all basically how all kind of realized that they were solving the same. The same problem in the. In the space and. And ghx was formed. So. So, yeah, so my name is Morton. I'm. I'm the executive director of engineering. Responsible for the exchange, as we call it. So the core system of. Of the company, basically starting from when documents come in the front door and then through all the translation and mapping and so on until it goes out the back door. And then a bunch of systems around this for configuration, setting up new customers, analytics and. And basically anything you can imagine that we do with this data, essentially. So, yeah, any questions on that really quick? Or.  
Them: I had been working on systems provides who is product services not many questions right now.  
Me: Okay. All right, great. So then maybe you can just spend a few minutes. Tell me about yourself, your background, what you. What you work on and your technical expertise.  
Them: I'll just give a brief background of mine and what I'm working on current admin in it from past 23 years in one whole life cycle development of software applications and the products and recent past had been a little bit hands-on with agents implement of a tools using Amazon q nova. Use github and copilot too in the process. And from past 23 years I had been involved in design development implementation integration release of microservice applications like end to end. I have experience with working on cloud services like gcp, aws and azure and open shift. I have I have experience in provided solutions to clients with highly available distributables scalable systems providing some fault tolerance whenever required. Used spring framework, apigee framework and I have hands-on experience with multiple databases or I kill my sql mongodb no sql databases. Have working service or interact architecture enterprise service bus interacted with different you know sqs like you know AWS sqs and kafka and different thing in the past I worked with different application servers you know it has become the past. Interacted with different build tools maven Gradle written past item most working on maven and gradle interact with different repositories with github bit bucket etc. Have a little bit experience on shell scripting and little experience on python and UML modeling as a part of my you know architecture you know knowledge where I help providing some flows documents diagrams etc. Followed typical methods in agile currently. So that's very high level view of different things whichever right now I work with ADP I had been a principal or lead developer we are doing an integration project with them I can get into details you know if you need any questions in that kind of lead handling like three projects for integration three different teams and I worked as lead in Pfizer it's a financial company we are implementing a project for california state kind of deposits you know online deposits actually and I worked at bank of new york melon it's a financial company kind of developing a brand new microservice applications for derivatives feeds data providing to and also distributing to different different vendors actually and I was in the ADP in the past working on different you know client associate engagement the one which relates to healthcare is magnitude that is a company which supports you know like. Doctors with legal documents there I dealt with Delphi which has a document you know supporting company and what we did there is you know middleware converted the mule soft USB into a lot of microservices which provides in middle interface to Salesforce applications actually so interactive with oracle database and in the past work with lease plan direct TV Bank of America you know this is all my experience which I work in the past coming to the current experience I have dealt with the bigger teams like up to. Not sure how big you mean you think but I dealt with around 20 to 25 people with three different teams and my day-to-day actives involve design like you know talking with the product owners business associates get the requirements converting them into technical documents like you know writing stories for the epics and eventually talking to different teams you know and like that's one piece of task eventually talking to resources availability and all like estimating the resources of work how much you need to be doing that's also was one part of eventually I attend the spring groomings I do code reviews I've been hands-on with the code to like 30 to 40% development 60 to 70% planning architecture design that's what I try to focus and eventually. I set up some templates like spring boot applications for brand new you know applications anything you need to coordinate with like third party services common enterprise service I'll talk with the teams get the services available like something like secret services which are commonly used interact with the teams try to get things set up and also collaborate with devops for the releases you know different from development to fit to UAT and the production releases supporting them in the production list that's a very high level which had been working on let me know if you want me to elaborate on anything.  
Me: Yeah. Okay. So that. That's congratulations on, you know, long, deep experience. It's. You kind of covered most of the tech stack there. What. What would. What's your. What's your expertise in terms? Is it. Back end, front end data? What would you say your kind of core skill set lies?  
Them: I would say like you know I started as a junior Java developer I did a senior Java developer and right now I have like you know lead experience I recent past I've been doing a lot of backend development because microservices comes in the middleware where it handles lot of backend services. Though my strongness is in the backend eventually I got into a lot of architecture and design works like you know flows like taking decisions on which path to take also providing some solutions architectural solutions that's where my path had been and back in developer recent past with the advancement of UI I have little knowledge of react js how things works but coding I have very less knowledge but I understand the code what is written try to like you know find the main process so that's where I meant.  
Me: Yeah. So this role is very, very data focused, very focused on a large amount of months of data, picking the right products for, you know, how and where to store data, how to model it, how to. How to flow it between various applications and things like that. Can. Can you tell me. Tell me more about your experiences with various databases and. And data architect.  
Them: Definitely yep back to bank of new york melon that was a financial company where we have derivatives actually there's lot of data handing over there like you know we get data in terms of files you know reading files from S3 buckets processing them you know that point like the project starting addition need to be taken whether do you need to go with the tool or you want to use spring boot batch services and all I did some analysis and you know there was a lot of resiliency required and also backup mechanisms required in case of data failure happens and all so in that scenario I kind of you know came up with couple of flows providing some proposals you know if we take this path okay there are data exchanges data mappings happen okay we can handle this way and if there are multiple files how to batch flow them you know according to the requirement I provided different different scenarios like or do we go with ETL tools you know so a lot of things matter when you're designing data actually how much data we have how much data is a cachable data how much data is the data actually we need to store and how much fast we need to retrieve you know that kind of things and all over and all every company is all about resiliency right you know how long we want to store the data and all so it all depends on your need and different proposals were given eventually we went with implementing spring patch microservices because of that advantages and availability of resources so that's one project which I kind of implemented in you know handling the data in the fil.  
Me: Yeah.  
Them: E the it was mostly like you know we converted and online system like you know deposits actually they have deposits coming in they want to convert the ex to send checks they want to convert into online you're usually capturing the account details like you know that's where the security comes into picture like we need to handle people's account numbers we need to handle people assessments so making sure that data has got good security and using walls etc for any any kind of storing the data so security applications like what I can say is the the data which needs security handling of the data masking and masking the task where I have handled some data there and coming to ADP most of the data is like you know since it's a middle layer we fetch the data from monolith systems and we provide it to UI okay and we use dynamoDB where some cases where we need to kind of store the temporary data and reprocess it so I have interacted with dynamoDB and eventually it depends on how you how you create your schemas like you know what kind of columns you need do you need any indexes how fast you want to fetch the data what kind of data it is like it is searchable data or it's data which it needs to store so depending on the different types of data we have to take decisions how fast searchable data or it's durable data like that kind of decisions.  
Me: Okay. What. What are the various. What are the different databases or data stores that you have experience with.  
Them: I've been working from past 20 years my experience starts with mysql and I used Oracle database recent past I had been using mongo DB and dynamo DB actually so those are the couple of two nice fields I have a little bit hands on experience.  
Me: Okay. And how would you. How. What are some things you have to consider when you pick. When you decide where to store your data.  
Them: Yes well first it depends on how how large your data is okay so does it need frequent access or it's like. Just you know read only data or does it need any edits first that's the first thing which we come with depending on that we decide like you know if it's read only data do we not do we need any views for easy searches quick searches okay and second thing is how you want to plan your story your data like you know keys the keys are very important for the database like primary keys secondary queries the shrik keys and also having indexes on the keys for searching purposes and views all depends on what kind of request you are dealing with actually so I would start like that with oracle database they they support some table spaces and normalized normalization of data different things we can implement and however when you come to no SQL databases all your data is like an object actually okay so the Json objects the way you construct your object is the one ADP some scenarios when the requirement comes right when the request response I have to design we have I have designed some Json data to give the preview of how the object would be and how we store the object. And primary keys is one more thing where we need to handle so I told very very high level but you know it it our second thing is you know. Whether you need to write how complex queries you need to write right some they go with plsql postures as the old way these days I'm not hearing much plsql process but if I have a legacy system and they have plskit we have to have a find a way to use criteria to reuse the plsq queries and also that kind of stuff actually.  
Me: Okay. Can you think of a. Can you think of a scenario or an application? Or system where you would need. I'm just gonna say all three types of databases. So transactional. And. Or I'm sorry. So basically relational database and no SQL database. And. And. Document DB, let's say. Like what kind of make something. Yeah. When we.  
Them: Yes. Yes yes there were a lot of scenarios where we need to store the metadata of files actually in the in that scenarios we use relational database actually relation database helps in metadata very easily like when a file comes in they have different formats right so we save the metadata of the file in relation database we try to fetch with the keys and we try to map the data and construct the whole file and send it in that cases relation database very very helpful in some cases where you have a lot of generic columns normalization of data which will go with you know like static columns we use relational database a lot but where there are a lot of searches right so there might prefer to use no SQL databases where there's no relationship. We have lot of inner objects so in that scenarios probably we'll read only database we might go with no SQL because there is. Even graphql is one of the thing where which helps in searches right so in that scenarios I felt no SQL database are very faster actually but the drawback with them is you don't you cannot get huge amounts of data for example in when I was using AWS when I need to count the records right AWS can fetch only limited amount after like 5G 5 MB of data per transaction so in that scenarios right it was very hectic to use AWS database when you did you're fetching large huge amounts of data you'll go with relational when you have light data where you need to process on the fly and you I'll use my SQL databases actually. Moreover and also cashes actually second sorry I just need to mention that caching mechanism which helps in databases actually in retrieval of large amounts of data for searches actually.  
Me: Okay. And. All right, so switching gears a little bit. So this. This roll would be working across multiple. Actually dozen or so engineering teams and help them with show what, you know, good looks like and help them execute towards that vision. How. Tell me a bit about your experience kind of influencing without having direct Authority if you've had that type of situation in your career.  
Them: Yes in the in the current world of enterprise applications every project I have worked I have to deal with different teams for example Pfizer there's a team like you know we have data incoming data but we cannot have our own databases actually we have to use shared databases so I have to set up meetings help them explaining our data schema and also try to explain why we have these keys why we don't have these keys how much resilience you want okay so that kind of experience I have and also using kafka some of the projects I use kafka a lot we cannot have our individual you know standalone systems we have to use the share resources in that scenarios I have to take the sample of my Kafka objects provide some stats on like you know how much kb of data we use per request providing some kind of stats interacting with the team getting our account set up done that kind of scenarios where I interacted with different teams and majorly the other one in adp is you know I have to talk to other teams in interacting with different modules actually okay in the ADP we integrating with one application or workforce software or application divided into three pieces like we have we handle like depend clock punching is one application one functionality there is time periods you know time off like that we have three different modules all these different modules there is a lot of background process running right so when we update this data how frequently the data should be collected how frequently that should be sent to the backend systems there's a third party called payroll data integration team where we have to connect with them sync up with the resources trying to figure out like you know objects what objects we are using what objects they are also trying to see you know in the scenarios I have to talk with third 43rd party you know like other teams to get into agreement so how we want to go proceed with you know integration layer some some cases there were differences what we used to do is you know we have to have elongated meetings or product owners trying to figure out is this particular requirement is really necessary or thought how priority it is you know getting it prioritized and also going back to the table trying to discuss and coming up with a final you know architecture diagrams so that's a level of expertise I have in some scenarios also trying to explain the architecture team actually you know you have your own project ready okay but sometimes the architecture team they want to implement some policies and some kind of processes how we want to use like we cannot just use the data or we want like you know masking of the like there are some things like you know does your data uses critical columns like SSN so how you're going to handle them right so we cannot have account number set up directly so in that cases we need to use wall services where we encrypt the data and come back save it in the database when we fetch back decrypt the data in the scenarios I need to talk with different groups talking to the groups making sure that the whole project needs whatever it's required for execution coming up with helping architecture diagrams integrating with the different teams so that project can be executed so that is a level of experience I have interacting with different teams.  
Me: Okay. All right. I think that's all I have. So we have five minutes. I want to leave that for you. If you have any questions for. For me.  
Them: Yes I miss you have mentioned that this role is you know principal role but I want to know like what kind of projects you have like is it an existing project where you're getting person to help with like you know integration different people or you have any new products coming up where we need designs and how.  
Me: It's a mix of both. So we're. We're in a situation where we're trying to. Break up. So a lot of our system right now is kind of tied up in the monolith, and we're trying to break that apart. And part of the. Part of the dependencies that we're trying to break is actually in the data layer. So we have multiple applications like sharing databases in some cases. And we're not necessarily using the right product for the job in. In some cases. So there's a bunch of kind of blocking and tackling that needs to happen. But the reason why we're anxious to do that is because we have a long, long backlog and request of innovation ideas and new product development and so on. We just have to, we're sort of limited how much of that we can tackle until we have paid back a bunch of this technical debt. Basically. Yeah.  
Them: Does a company allow to use any air tools to get your work faster or it's restricted?  
Me: Yeah. Yeah. So we actually have a word. We have. We're in a very good situation there. We have. So we've kind of zeroed in on claude and anthropics tools. So every, every engineer has. So now at least unlimited access to cloud code and clod co work and so on. We're obviously, we're. Working on setting up, basically going much beyond the individual, individual Engineers using, using AI to write code locally. We're, we're working on setting up a much more end-to-end AI enabled software development lifecycle. And so we're still figuring out what the orchestration layer is going to look like there. We may actually use a combination of github and, and plot given that github is our code repo. So we're trying to, I feel like we're doing quite well. We're definitely resourced like we have all the tools that we want to ask for and, and so on. So that, that's, it's super good that way. What's your experience with these tools so far?  
Them: I have to use Amazon queue and Nova in the ad itself we have developed like there were six or seven microservices we have developed. Out of them two or three of them were totally out of we provide the requirement we get back the code and also tell it to give test cases totally driven by a all we need to do is you know see whether our input and outputs are good or you know do we need to make any changes business perspective how much flexible is that microservice project you know so that's the level of expertise I have and we have implemented a couple of microservice using yes and right now I'm also involved in one of the initiative where we need to develop an agentic AI like you know in the adpa assist when people ask questions. Right so it has intelligence built in but with the help of agenda is like with mcp servers we kind of take the request we try to utilize our API calls existing API calls try to proactively give answers more more relative to the question you know in a faster mode so I'm right now in the process of implementing those actually so hopefully this experience might you know provide some good results.  
Me: Okay. Okay. All right. Okay, great. Yeah. So anyway, so to answer your question, I feel like we have access to all the tools that we want at this point and. Yeah, part, it's kind of on purpose. We're trying to figure out what, what's going to work best for our situation.  
Them: Yes.  
Me: Yeah.  
Them: On the verge like you know they know they need to use a but problem is do you know how we want these views right so that's where you know people are exploring I can say none of them is final it's all you know.  
Me: Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.  
Them: Depend on the requirement yeah.  
Me: All right.  
Them: One final question I have tech stack right are you guys more oriented on java or flexible on python or it all totally depends on your requirements what you.  
Me: At this point, Java on the back end, typescript on the front end. That's. But we're not, I feel like the exact. Technology is less and less important with, you know, with. Yeah. With, with genetic assistance, you can kind of knowing the exact language becomes less and less important. But that, that's the idea of this tech stack right now.  
Them: Like. Good. Thank you that that's all for my questions you know not.  
Me: Okay. Great. Well, I want to thank you for your time. We, we have a few of these initial conversations, and then we'll decide how to move forward probably towards the end of the week here.  
Them: Sure thanks for your time.  
Me: Thank you very much.  
Them: Have a good day.  
Me: Bye-bye. 
