Date: Apr 1

Transcript:
 
Me: Okay, great. So yeah, so like I said, my name is Morton. Executive director of engineering at GHX. My team oversees what's called basically what's called the exchange, which is essentially. The core of the company, it was the product, the product the company was founded around. And so my team is about 80 people or so.  
Them: Okay.  
Me: Organized in 10 to 12 agile. Small agile teams that own different parts of the architecture. So I guess just a quick question for you. How much do you know about ghax, about the company? Yeah, so what I'm learning about TXX is doing healthcare to improve patient outcome with supply chains doing that.  
Them: So what I'm learning about gxx is, you know, doing healthcare to improve patient outcome. Right. With, you know, supply chains to doing that. And then, you know, your team is trying to design, like, more like a scalable solution, right?  
Me: And then your teammates is trying to design more like a scalable solution rainfall to supply chain to healthcare. So maybe leveraging that data, AI and automation to build healthcare supply chain. Yeah, so we essentially that's correct and said a little differently. So we connect healthcare providers, meaning doctors and hospitals and so on with healthcare suppliers. So the companies that make and distribute the products that's needed in that process. So any, I would say anything from band aids to knee joints and surgical instruments. Basically it spans the whole gamut, right? So and so we facilitate that process and typically in the recent one of the reasons that the providers don't go directly to the suppliers is often they don't speak the same language. So the hospital might be sending purchase orders in EDI format, but the company that's selling the product might expect XML or something. Right. And then there's lots of translation and enrichment and so on that happens along the way. And that's kind of what our system does.  
Them: For due to the supply chain to healthcare provider and supply worldwide. So maybe leveraging on data, AI and automation, right, to build healthcare supply chain. Button.  
Me: So yeah. Let's see. That's very quickly. Okay, so let's pivot to you then. If you can give me high level summary of your background and what led you to apply for this role.  
Them: Yeah. Yes. So, Martin, I'm principal engineer. Right. I specialize in Enterprise platform, AI driven application and large scale distributor system at Verizon. And, you know, I, I do designing for data architecture, optimized data performance.  
Me: Yes. Engineer, right? Customer in enterprise platform, AI driven application and large scale system at Verizon. And, you know, I do designing for data architecture, optimized data performance.  
Them: And I have also explained, like, in design implement, like data platform supporting AI area using rag pipeline and event driven architecture across the cloud environment.  
Me: And I have also explained like design improvement like data platform supporting AI area by using red pipeline and event driven architecture across the cloud environment. And also I have a record of like collaborating with the application engineer to align data architecture, right? With document driven design scalable microservices.  
Them: And also I have a record of, like, collaborating with the application engineer to align data architecture. Right. But domain driven design and scalable microservices. Architecture using java.  
Me: Architecture using java. Okay.  
Them: It.  
Me: Yeah. Okay. I'm just taking some notes. Yeah. If you want, I can go to project that I've been working on. Yeah, that would be fantastic. But the things you're mentioning are all relevant for us.  
Them: Sure. If you want, I can go to projects that I've been working on related to that mutton. Yeah.  
Me: So it would be good to just, if you can deep dive a little bit on these experiences.  
Them: So when the project martin that before I left Verizon, right, it's like I, I was architect data break pipeline using modern architecture to deduplicate motor source. So we have, like, oracle, cassandra, informatica. Right. And then we try to reduce the data processing time.  
Me: So one third party, the market that before I left the rice, right, it's like I was up to have a data frame pipeline using my journal architecture to deduplicate multi source. So we have like Oracle, Cassandra, Informatica, and which one to reduce the data processing time to clean up data in a sense. So we can framework like we have like different stage like martin to clean up. And then after it's cleaning up to the gold stage that we're able to use it for like AI chatbot or bioanalytic reporting method power, vi or table. So for that one, right, we use some of the fine tuning using adoptive query execution.  
Them: To clean up data in a sense. So with the modern framework, right, we have, like, different stage. Right? Marten to clean up. And then after it's clean up to the gold stage, then we're able to use it for, like, AI chatbot or bioanalytic reporting, like for power, bi or tableau. So for that one, right, we use some of the fine tuning using adaptive query execution mutton or, like, using optimized or z ordering indexing to help.  
Me: Or by using optimize or see ordering indexing to help find some of those data.  
Them: Find some of those data. And so that's that, that's for that project.  
Me: And so that's what that project kind of high level in the nuts. Do you have any question on that or do you want me to cut up? So well, so tell me, so okay, so I want to dive into more of your role on the project, but describe the rest of the people working on it. What kind of other engineers and teams or whatnot were involved with this.  
Them: At high level in the nut. Cell. Do you have any question on that or do you want me? To. Yeah. Sure. Yes. So for, for this project, we have like a small team, like maybe around 10 people, Martin. So beside me as a principal engineer, also kind of slash architect help drive the, the solution. We also have, like, product manager and then couple engineer team that are lead under, under my emperor.  
Me: Yes. So for this project, we have like a small team like maybe around 10 people. So beside me as a principal engineer also has last architect help drive the solution. We also have like product manager and then couple engineer team that I lead under my and also with the business stakeholder and the project manager QA team. And then we're using agile methodology to like two weeks sprint method and then every day we have like a scrum meeting like to live with the team to see any blow or any issue. So as.  
Them: And also with the business stakeholder and the project manager. And QA team. And then we're using agile methodology to, like two, two weeks Sprint. Mutton, and then, you know, every day we have like a quick squat meeting. Right. To meet with the team to see any low roadblock or any issue. Right. So to, to. So. As a, as a lead, I was trying to help the team to resolve some of the issues that they have facing along the way.  
Me: A lead, I was trying to help the team to resolve some issue that they have facing along the way. Okay. So what does it mean that you were the lead.  
Them: Lead meaning on the, this project here, because eventually we want to use this one for like AI initiative. Right. So if you can see from my resume, I also have another AI initiative that can help drive the solution.  
Me: Meaning. Or the this part here? Because eventually we want to use this one for like AI initiative. Right. So if you can see from my resume, I also have another initiative that can help drive the solution. So what I'm doing is like kind of working closely with the product manager team.  
Them: Marten. So what I'm doing is like kind of working closely with the product manager team. To help, like, lay down the roadmap, right, for solution, things that we can do to help, you know, speed up the data performance and, and, and that, that kind of nature.  
Me: To help like lay down the roadmap, right? For solution things that we can do to help speed up the data performance. And that kind of nature.  
Them: Yeah. So early than that one, I was involving in a Java development project that we actually, you know, try to upgrade it from the old technology from j2e and then using microservices spring framework.  
Me: So early than that one, I was involved in like the Java development projects that we actually, you know, try to upgrade from the old technology for J2EE and then using microservices screen framework.  
Them: I mean, spring boot and then using react on the front end and using rubber MQ for asynchronous communication and then also using AWS for like cicd deployment with docker. So for that, that project, you know, we start applying, like, what they call strangler fig pattern, which is kind of built the service with slowly, right, where the legacy component, like, slowly replace for that.  
Me: I mean spring boot and then using react on the front end, producing rubber and queue for asynchronous communication. Okay. And then also using AWS for like CI/CD department. With docker. So for that project, you know, we start finding like what they call strangular pick pattern, which is kind of built a service slowly when the legacy component slowly replaced for that.  
Them: Yeah.  
Me: Yeah. How did that work out? How did that string a big pattern work out?  
Them: And, yeah, so it took a little bit more time and. But, you know, we tried to also kind of using the zero domain downtime, right migration. So the database and the cloud architecture, right? We implement like replication and then kind of different phase, right, for cut up. Like, we're not trying to roll out all the microservices all at once, Martin. You know, maybe if there's something fair, right, we can automatically roll back strategy with, you know, infrastructure of the cicd pipeline.  
Me: But you know which part to also kind of using the zero downtime migration. So the database and the cloud architecture waiting in formal application and then kind of different phase or color. Like we're not trying to go out on microservices. If there's something that we're looking automatically rollback strategy with, you know, infrastructure of the CIC pipeline. Okay.  
Them: So basically we can map out a lot of service dependency and data flow, right, to make sure that we cover that, like, especially like high traffic endpoint, critical database and external integration, right, to make sure that we cover that. And then we're using, we build like a Grana dashboard to, to monitor the performance metric like latency to put an error rate to make sure that, you know, we cover that too, Martin.  
Me: So basically what kind of service dependency and data flow, right, to make sure that we cover that. Like especially the high traffic endpoint, critical database and external integration to make sure that we cover that. And then we're using, we build like a Grana dance board to monitor the performance metric like latency to put an error ring to make sure that we count that too. Okay. Okay. Yeah. So.  
Them: Yeah. So that's that project. Yeah. Okay.  
Me: What would you. Say are your true core strengths? Like what are you exceptionally good at? Think about when, so things like if there's a problem in this area or if there's a discussion about this topic, everyone on the team knows that Victor needs to be involved. Like what are those things? Yeah.  
Them: Right, right. So I think my two strength mutton is I'm very flexible, even though I'm as a principal engineer. I also involve on some architecture for AI initiative that I take on and also kind of work as with the team. Right. Leading the team. So if you ask the teammate, they usually I'm very easy to approach with and kind of try to help them solve the problem.  
Me: Right. So I think my two strength. Method is I'm very flexible. Even though I'm as the principal engineer. I also involve some architecture for AI initiative that I take on and also kind of work with the team, right? Leading the team. So if you ask the teammate, they usually are very easy to approach with and kind of try to help them solve the problem, not like one example that I architect and actually work closely with the business team to implement like a solution for integration.  
Them: Martin, like one example that I, I architect and actually work closely with the business team to implement like a solution for integration. Like my Verizon is like business portal allow them to come on site to place order, right? Martin. So it's a business customer.  
Me: When my horizon is like this is order allow them to come outside to place all the right method. So it's a business customer and then they don't want the employee to like log in each time to get to a second place order. So what I come up with working with the middleware.  
Them: And then they don't want the employee to like log in each time, right, to, to get to our site to place order. So what I come up with working with the middleware. Vendor, right, separate allow implement like a link that we can quickly link, click on it and then able to come to our site to place all the button. And then, you know, when they place the order, we send the order back to, to them for approval. And then after they approve it, they send it back to us for fulfillment.  
Me: Window, right, separate like a link that we can quickly click on it and then able to come to our sample place order button. And then, you know, when they place the order, we send the order back to the approval and then after they approve it, they send it back to our fulfillment. So for this back end to airline, I also can leave about five plus a protein to help them to buy which troubleshoot the issue with this escalation. So usually, you know, even though a lot of the project market when they escalation that they need me to be on, I just think how to get on the call with the customer and then try to resolve either quickly and solve it with the data prefix or otherwise, you know, the co fix the next borrowing day. Okay. All right. So that makes sense.  
Them: So for this back end to end, right, I also can't lead about five production support team to help them try to troubleshoot the issue when there's an escalation. So usually, you know, even though I want another project martin, I, when they escalation that they need me to be on, I usually have to get on the call with the customer and then try to resolve, you know, either quickly can solve it with the data quick fix or otherwise, you know, if the cofix, the next following day like that.  
Me: And it makes sense when you've been 16 years at a company. I think you probably knows where all the bodies are buried basically, right?  
Them: Right. Yeah. So more like SME in the area, Marten, even, you know, before I left Verizon, right, I still have to support that application. Correct. Yeah.  
Me: Yeah, yeah. I still have to support that applic. Ation. Okay. So, but what about, so what about technically what technical, what technical skills are your core strengths? Let's say I asked you today, like we're going to set up a couple of technical interviews. What do you want them to be on? Like what would you feel most comfortable doing a technical interview on? And it could be anything.  
Them: So. So Martin, for my background, right, I start with Java developer.  
Me: For my background. I start the charcoal development application would be my earlier that I've been working on for many years. And then the last point for your lift high start slowly trying to implement initially around AI area.  
Them: So Java application, you know, would be my area that I've been working on for many years. And then the last four, four years, we kind of start slowly trying to implement initiative around AI area. Mutton. So, you know, I started learning python and then tried to prototype one the project initiative using AWS bedrock. So also involved with python also on coding and, you know,  
Me: So, you know, I started learning python and then tried prototype one.projective using block. So also involved with the python coding. And.  
Them: A high level of prototyping on that, too.  
Me: Prototyp. Ing on that. Too. Okay, so are you saying then that these skills that you've learned over the last four years, you've gotten so good at and you're now considering them your part of your core strengths. Is that correct?  
Them: Java.  
Me: Yes. Yeah. Okay.  
Them: Yes. So I would say Java and python will be the two, two, two language that I'm familiar with.  
Me: That will be the two language that I'm familiar with. Okay, so this rule is focused on.  
Them: Yeah.  
Me: Data and databases and the storage and modeling and so on. Right. So how would you, what's your experience then with. Various databases and data storage products and so on.  
Them: Yeah. So, so, like I explained earlier, right? The project about using the data brick pipeline with medulla framework.  
Me: So like I explained earlier, I'm not in like the quantitative work using the data grid pipelines or the journal framework.  
Them: So we, from Verizon, right, we have three area of database is Oracle and then cassandra as like no single database and then informatica for like ETL heavy and batch up. So one of the thing on Verizon that we also implement is our reporting for the customer. They can come on our site and, and download the report like device report and so on. So what we did in the back end, right, mutton, like we actually integrate a lot with our downstream system using bar chart, you know, you know, they either nightly voucher to update the information or try to get some of the real time incrementally display on for the customer.  
Me: So with from horizon, right, we have three area of database is Oracle and then Cassandra as like no single interface and then implement ET of heavy. So one of the things on the horizon that we also implement is our reporting for the customer and they can come on our scan and download the report and device report and so on. So what we did in the back end, right, market line, we actually integrate a lot with our downstream system using backdrop. But you know they need a directly backup or update the information or try to get some of the real time incrementally displayed on the customer.  
Them: And so we used to try to fine tune the query and, and, you know, working closely with the database team to see whether we can make the, the query faster.  
Me: And so we usually try to fine tune the query and you know working closely with the database team to see whether we can make the query faster. Like using technique or caching.  
Them: Right. Either using technique of caching or indexing the do. So, so those are my experience related to the data area for, for that project.  
Me: So those are my experience related to the data area. Okay. Okay. Okay. All right. So let's see. So. You, I think it said on your resume, you've worked on database performance tuning and so on. Yeah. So can you speak more about that?  
Them: Yeah. Yeah. So in terms of tuning, right, for that framework that we did for our project. So we're using like what they call adaptive query execution.  
Me: Yeah, so in terms of tuning, right, for that vendor, media framework that we did project. So we using like what they call adaptive query execution.  
Them: Those are like a fine tuning method that we're trying to use.  
Me: Those are like a fine method that we're trying to use.  
Them: And then the indexing like, so I'm working closely with the database team, right, to see whether we can try to optimize like some Delta like data, right, to, to make sure it's optimized and also make sure it's secure and especially in AI area mountain. Like, you know, we have to handle the, the guardrail and also hallucination. So we also do like trying to train our last language model using like q query fine tuning for that and also like data governance.  
Me: And then the indexing. Right. So I'm working closely with the database team like to see whether we can try to optimize like some data like data, right, to make sure it's optimized. And also make sure it's secure, especially in AI area. Like, you know, we have to handle the blood rail and also hallucination. So we also do like trying to train our last language model using like kube query fine tuning for that and also like data governance linkage for security.  
Them: Linkage for security. And we introduce like a human in the loop kind of method to, to help clean, you know, validate the data, make sure the data is clean and also like secure as well.  
Me: And we introduce like a human in the loop kind of method to help clean the data, make sure the data is clean and also like secure as well.  
Them: So those are the different things that we're trying to, to do that.  
Me: So those are the different things that we try to do that.  
Them: For, for optimizing the data.  
Me: For optimizing the data. Okay. All right. And then. All right, so let's see. So. This. Is a role that works kind of across the organization, right, with the application teams not working in isolation. So how have you typically engaged with the application teams at rice and have you been part of the same team for a while or have you worked more across the org? Or?  
Them: Across the, the world. I'll give you my example as working on that, the AI initiative, Martin that we try to resolve for the database production support team like they daily. They have the monitor like 250 plus server mutton and then the business stakeholder. I work closely with business stakeholder and product manager to, to lay down.  
Me: Custom. Well, I'll. Give you my example. As working on that. The AI initiative. Which fight do we sell for the database industry support team by the day we have the monitor like 250 plus server? And then the business stakeholder. I work closely with business stakeholder product manager to lay down.  
Them: The initiative, like how do we solve this for the pain point that they taking a long time for them to resolve the ticket. So when we come up with Martin is we initially, we use our in-house large language model to train the model and then using rack like more like a knowledge piece to, to do that.  
Me: The initiative like how do we solve this for the pain point that they taking a long time for them to resolve the ticket. So what we come up with, Martin, is we initially we use our in-house last language model to train the model and then using red like more like a knowledge piece to do that.  
Them: And, and then it actually create like a problem for hallucination, meaning wrong data. And then we, we kind of step back and I work across with the AI engineer team and data scientist team to kind of collaborate to come up with a solution using AWS bedrock and AWS bedrock, it will kind of provide us the, the last language model, and then we can using agent to, to autonomous flow to help drive that so that when they prompt something, right, we'll come back with the correct data.  
Me: And then it actually create like a problem for hallucination, meaning wrong data. And then we kind of step back and I look across with the AI engineering team and data scientist team to kind of collaborate to come up with solution using AWS background. And AWS bandwidth, it will cut over us the last language model and then we can using agent to overcome to help drive that so that when they prompt something right, we'll come back with the correct data and we try to control the hallucination and, you know, basing using correct with vector database. So then cut down, you fit in more like a knowledge base for that matter.  
Them: And, and we try to control the hallucination and, you know, basing, using correct with vector database so that it will cut down, it fit in more like a knowledge base for that. Mutton for, for that sense.  
Me: Sense. And then we also improvement like filter content to AWS bedlock side to control the guardrail for.  
Them: And then we also Implement like filter contouring to AWS bedrock side to, to control the guardrail for, for. The, for that. Yes.  
Me: That. Yeah. Okay. All right.  
Them: So, yeah, to answer your question, yeah, I work across different team because the Java development team, it will be the one that will work on the application side that I work on the Java side, which I, I still like before I left, right? I still have to support that. So I work with the, like, five production team that I assigned the ticket to them.  
Me: I say your question. Yeah, I walked across different team because the job of development team will be the one that could work on the application side that I work on the other side, which I still like before I left, right? So I still have to support that. So I work with my five production team that I assigned the ticket to them to three hours and ticket and then get on the call with the customer, you know, when they have issue on the cloud and also try to promote the usage for this initiation with the business team. So that's one world that I carry. And then another role is on the AI initiative of the database. Like, you know, try to optimize the database with the duplicate source. So those are different initiat also coming my way to nothing. Okay. With different teams that I'm trying to start working on. Yeah. Yeah. Okay.  
Them: Mutton to three hours a ticket and then get on the call with the customer. You know, when they have issue on the call. And also trying to promote the, the usage for this initiation with the business team. So, so that's one, one role that I carry. And then another role is on the AI initiative one or the database, like, you know, try to optimize the database with the duplicate source. So those are different initiatives also coming my way to mutton. So with different team that I'm trying to working on. Yeah.  
Me: And then. So you mentioned in passing a couple of different database products. You mentioned Oracle and Cassandra. Yeah. So what, so what are, what are you using Oracle for and what were you using Cassandra for and what, you know, tell them talk about this. Why do you have, why do you have two different databases at play? Yeah. So Oracle is mainly built the business portal that we support. We actually using Oracle as a main database.  
Them: Cassandra. No sql, by the way. Oh. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. So Oracle is mainly out the business portal that we support actually using Oracle as a main, main database. And then NoSQL is, is our downstream system where they send it back to some of the data to us using no SQL with a Cassandra.  
Me: And then NoSQL is our downstream system where they send it back to some of the data to us using those SQL with a Cassandra.  
Them: And then, sorry, an informatica is mainly that we will interject with ETL, right? You're a data warehouse and, you know, more like for bad job, ETL heavy kind of.  
Me: And then, sorry, an informatica is mainly what interject with BTL, right? There are data warehouse. And, you know, more like for bad job, ETL heavy. Okay, so you mentioned they send data back to you via Cassandra. What does that mean? Who sends data back to you?  
Them: Downstream system is using the Cassandra no SQL database. And, and they actually each, like when I explain like earlier, like for project for like reporting, they need to send some, the data back to us.  
Me: System is using the cassandra no single database and they actually like will explain that earlier that for parts it's called like reporting, they need to send some the data back to us on a daily basis to optimize on the reporting side. So behind the scene, right, we using like local to help driving some of the modernization for the UI to make your performance better until coming back to the data and also getting working with the downstream system closely to get the data coming to us.  
Them: On daily basis to optimize on the reporting side. So behind the scene, right? We're using like looker to, to help driving some of the modernization for the UI to make a performance better into coming back with the data and also getting working with the downstream system closely to, to get that data coming to us. Through ETL or batch up like con job or.  
Me: So if you like funnel cost or if you have.  
Them: Yeah.  
Me: So. Oracle is the source of truth. Is that correct? And then if all for our business.  
Them: For, for our business portal. Yes.  
Me: Portal. Yes. Okay.  
Them: Correct.  
Me: All right. And what data lives in Cassandra is it the same data just transformed or something else? Yeah, I used to correspond to ETL because belief is of the downstream system. So we have a downstream also supporting us, right? The data coming back. So it's limited downstream using cassette.  
Them: Yeah, it's transformed into ETL because it lifted from the downstream system. So we have a downstream also supporting us, right, for different data coming back. So, so it's leaving the downstream system using Cassandra.  
Me: Okay. Does it make sense?  
Them: Does it make sense, Martin? Oh.  
Me: Sort of. So let me repeat that back. So the system of record or source of truth is Oracle. And then you duplicate that data in Cassandra for consumption by downstream systems.  
Them: Meaning the source is for consensus data source. Right. We need to get that to ETL badge off to come to us.  
Me: Meaning the source is for conceptual data source, right? We need to have two ETL batch job to come to us to oracle site. Okay. In order to display that information to the user so that they can come to our site to download them. Okay. So Cassandra is really the sort. Cassandra is the source of truth.  
Them: To, to Oracle sign to in order to display that information to the user so that they can come to our site to download the report. Yeah. Downstream source. Yeah. For that particular data.  
Me: Yeah.  
Them: Right? Because on, on our portal, we also taking, you know, they can come into place form feature or plan. Right. We have those data as a data source. But on additional, right, some of the source data is coming from Cassandra downstream.  
Me: All right. Because on our portal, we also taking, you know, they can come into place bone feature or plan. Right. We have those data as a data slope. But additional, right? So those data is coming from Cassandra downstream. So for reporting purpose method, I hope you explore that more clear. Okay. All right.  
Them: Also for reporting purpose. Martin, I hope I explained that a little bit more clear. Yeah.  
Me: And actually, I think I should have asked this in the beginning, but what is this product that you're working on or worked on at Verizon? What is it? What's the product? Yeah.  
Them: The product is a, is a lot of business custom to come to our site to place for order for phones.  
Me: It allows this customer to come to our site to place on all the perform. You know, like they can change plan, they can come to change that feature or they can actually place actual different format, iPhone 15 or okay. So it's, is it the e-commerce website? Like when I go to Verizon and go to shop basically. Okay. Yes.  
Them: You know, like they can change plan, they can come to change that feature, or they can actually place actual for different form like iPhone 15 or device. Right. Different device. Yes. E-commerce website. Correct. Yes. Yes. Yeah. Like, like typically, if you go to Verizon site as a consumer, right, they allow you to, to select particular form or plan or feature to place it. Right. And then submit the, the order. Right. At the end.  
Me: Yes. Okay. Like typically, if you go to Verizon site as a consumer, right, they allow you to select particular form or plan or feature to place it. Right. And then submit the order at the end of the month. Yeah. So I'm doing this for the B2B customer, like our enterprise customer.  
Them: Martin. Yeah. So I'm doing this for the B2B customer, like our Enterprise customer, like bank, for example, you know, bank of America or those big bank. Right. You know, where they use outside exclusively. Yeah. To place order for Verizon phone.  
Me: Like bank, for example, bank account. Those big banks, where they use outside. Exclusively. All the rise in. All. Oh, interesting. Okay. So is it a completely different system than the consumer side?  
Them: Now very similar in a sense.  
Me: Not that similar in the sense. It's not 100%. But for business user, we also let them do like special entry, right? Like the one that explained to you like the VIP entry that they can use with the third party vendor.  
Them: It's not 100. But for business user, we also let them do like special entry. Right. Like the one I explained to you, like the VIP entry that they can use with the third party vendor to, to click on link and then come to our site on consumer side. We do not have this kind of feature for that.  
Me: So we'll click on link and then come to our site. On consumer side, you really do not have a discount feature. For that.  
Them: So besides the basic phone ordering, we also allow business custom to do many different customization button. Like they can suppress certain features, certain device that they don't want to see and that they can pass, pass it to the cxml behind the scene to us like that.  
Me: Yeah. Besides the basic phone ordering, we also allow business customers to do many different customization market. Like they can suppress certain features, certain device that they don't want to see. And then they can pass it to the CXML behind the scene to us. Yeah. Okay. All right. Okay, great. Thank you for that. So what questions do you have for me?  
Them: Oh, okay.  
Me: Oh, okay. So, you mentioned that you knew about 10 to 12 different HR team, right? Can you cut this guy like, how does this role will be interact with that? Like, is it going to be part of one of the agile team or how does this work fit in? No, yeah, so no, this role reports directly to me.  
Them: So earlier you mentioned that you, you about 10 to 12 different agile team, right? Martin, can you kind of describe like how, how does this role will be interact with them? Like, is it going to be part of one of the agile team or how does this role fit in?  
Me: And it's going to, it's, it's more of a consultative role to all these, all the teams.  
Them: Okay.  
Me: So yeah, so right now, so we have a bit of a monolithic architecture that we need to break apart. You mentioned stranger fig pattern in the past. Right. So, and part of the, as you can imagine, is there's lots of various.  
Them: Yeah.  
Me: Systems and components that kind of talk to the same databases. And this is the problem. So this is one area that we need to change.  
Them: Okay. Oh, I see. Right, right.  
Me: And so we need, we need this role. We need somebody that really knows what good looks like. And also. We're a bit, we're a little bit stuck on mongodb. That's kind of the database we use for everything. And it's not always the right choice. So we need, the teams need help.  
Them: Bangladesh. I see.  
Me: Picking and choosing how and where to store their data and so on. Right. So that's kind of, that's how we describe it.  
Them: I see. Okay. Okay. So the monologue application you talk about, are they, like, mostly Java stack or dotnet.  
Me: Okay, so the model application you talked about, are they like mostly Java staff? Which application?  
Them: Or. The, the. The, you say the legacy system that you have.  
Me: You said the legacy system that you have, right? Are they using java? Yeah, so it's mostly like.  
Them: Right? Are they using Java or behind the scene? Oh, okay. So similar like us. Okay. Yeah. So Martin, it took us like, I would say at least six months to plan and, you know, slowly roll out. It's not going to be like a quick, like, you know, we can just kind of break. Right. We can't build the microservice component slowly. We kind of have to lay out everything and then make sure, you know, the data flow, the critical.  
Me: Yeah. So it took us like, I would say at least six months to plan and, you know, slowly roll out, it's not going to be like a quick, like, you know, we can just kind of break, right, make, kind of build the microservice component slowly. Yeah. You kind of have to lay out everything and then make sure the data flow, the critical.  
Them: So a lot of meeting and kind of planning ahead of time, Martin, for us. Yeah. So, so I think, you know, from the experience that, you know, we're able to achieve it, like to actually improve the performance too at the end.  
Me: So a lot of meaning and kind of planning ahead of time for us. Yeah. So I think, you know, from the experience that, you know, we're able to achieve it to actually improve the performance too at the end, like 30% reducing CICD deployment also help too. Yeah. Okay.  
Them: Martin, like 30 using cicd deployment also help too. Yeah.  
Me: All right.  
Them: Yeah.  
Me: Okay. Yeah. What else do you want to know?  
Them: So I would say the pain point for you then will be for the, this will be to try to migrate this monolithic legacy system, right, to the more modern approach using the right data.  
Me: So. Pain. Point for you. That will. Be. For the. This will be to try to migrate. This monolithic legacy system to the more modern. Well, yeah, and also I think there's some improvements that need to be done in place also in terms of, you know, the data layer. So I think so it's going to be a mix of both.  
Them: Right, right. Okay. Yeah.  
Me: Yeah.  
Them: So.  
Me: So.  
Them: So the, the team member, Martin, but like you say, for each HR team, they will have different engineering there. Is that how it kind of broken down engineer with how, how do we interact with other team like business? So you have a business team, QA team and kind similar Verizon.  
Me: The team member method, like you said, for each air tracking, they will have different engineer in there. Is it helicopter broken down engineer loop? How do we interact with other teams like business? So you have a business team, QA team and car similarize the brain. So each team has a product.  
Them: Rate.  
Me: Owner that works with stakeholders and customers and so on. The idea is that each team is as autonomous as possible and should really own the whole software development life cycle, including deployments and observability and things like that. So that's what we're working towards.  
Them: Yeah. Okay.  
Me: At least.  
Them: Okay. Cloud platform that you use using, using the AWS tool.  
Me: Okay. Platform that you use in that database. Too. Oh, so yeah, so we're in AWS.  
Them: Or using Azure. Database. Yeah. Okay. That's something like Verizon. Majority of our, our deployment is in AWS. Correct. Okay.  
Me: Yeah. Okay. Yeah. That's anti-wag horizon. I'll tell you about of the boundaries in the AWS. Correct.  
Them: Yeah. Okay, great.  
Me: Yeah. Okay, great. Yeah.  
Them: Yeah, I think.  
Me: I think what we cover, I just quite want to emphasize, like, you know, for my friend, I'm very flexible and able to, you know, working on the java running side as well as the AI initiative. The company is planning to go toward that direction in the future. Yeah. Is there any plan to go to more AI solution initiative in the future as well? Yeah, we're leaning in pretty heavily on that both on both in terms of.  
Them: We'll pretty much cover. I just quite want to emphasize, Martin, is like, you know, from my experience, I'm very flexible and able to, you know, working on the Java development side as well as AI initiative. If the company is planning for go toward that direction in the future. Is there any plan to go to more AI solution initiative in the future as well?  
Me: Agentic or llm assisted development. And, but also we have a few sort of, we have a few product initiatives as well where we were building around these capabilities.  
Them: Yeah. A chance to cry. Yeah, sure.  
Me: Yeah. So, I mean, I think every company is these days, right? But yeah, yes. Even.  
Them: Yeah. All kind. Yes, for sure. Yeah. Yeah. Even Verizon to mutton, like, you know, we, we come up with this AWS bedrock solution, which is like managed server is actually very scalable.  
Me: Provided to. Master. You know, we come up with. This. AWS bedrock solution, which is like managed server. It's up to very scalable.  
Them: And it's one thing I learned is like, you know, we're able to quickly prototype it. Marten, you know, and then roll out the production like six months to help to reduce some of the pain point for the internal project.  
Me: One thing I've learned is like, you know, we're able to quickly prototype it, mutton, you know, and then go up to production like six months to help to reduce some of the pain point for the internal project. Yeah. Yeah, we.  
Them: Improvising. Yeah.  
Me: Rolled out our internal development tools through bedrock. That's kind of how we do it. Yeah.  
Them: With bedrock, too, right? Yeah. Yeah. But the last language model. Correct. Yeah. And I find that it's helpful for us to make it secure. Right. Scalable and also able to control better in terms of some of the data governance piece of it.  
Me: The last. Language model. For us to make it secure, right? Scalable and also able to control. Better in terms of. Some of the. Data governance piece of it. Yeah. Okay. Okay.  
Them: Yeah. Okay. Yeah.  
Me: Well great. I want to thank you for your time.  
Them: I'm good. Marta, I know you have to. Yeah. Yeah. I know time is wrong. I applied. So. Yeah, I'm very excited. And I'm kind of looking forward to maybe the next step to speak with the team or Martin.  
Me: Yeah, no time to spot it up. High. So yeah, I'm very excited. I'm kind of looking forward to maybe the next step to speak with the team. Okay. Yeah, that sounds good. So yeah, we're going through a few.  
Them: Yeah.  
Me: Of these, a few of these similar screens and then we'll decide how to move forward. So you should hear from us within a few days or something. Yeah. Okay.  
Them: Yeah. Sure, sure. Good days. Okay. Yeah. All right. Nice talking to you, mutton. And.  
Me: Thank you. You as well. Have a good day.  
Them: Yeah. You too. Okay. Take care. Bye bye.  
Me: You too. 